---
title: "§ 40103. Funding for improvement of child abuse crime information"
identifier: "USC-T34-S40103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section40103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–209, § 4](/us/pl/103/209/s4), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2493](/us/stat/107/2493); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII, § 320928(d)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXII/s320928/d), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2132](/us/stat/108/2132); [Pub. L. 105–251, title II, § 222(c)](/us/pl/105/251/tII/s222/c), Oct. 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 1885](/us/stat/112/1885).)"
---
# § 40103. Funding for improvement of child abuse crime information

##### § 40103. Funding for improvement of child abuse crime information

(a) Omitted

(b) Additional funding grants for improvement of child abuse crime information

(1) The Attorney General shall, subject to appropriations and with preference to States that, as of December 20, 1993, have in computerized criminal history files the lowest percentages of charges and dispositions of identifiable child abuse cases, make a grant to each State to be used—

(A) for the computerization of criminal history files for the purposes of this chapter;

(B) for the improvement of existing computerized criminal history files for the purposes of this chapter;

(C) to improve accessibility to the national criminal history background check system for the purposes of this chapter;

(D) to assist the State in the transmittal of criminal records to, or the indexing of criminal history record in, the national criminal history background check system for the purposes of this chapter; and

(E) to assist the State in paying all or part of the cost to the State of conducting background checks on persons who are employed by or volunteer with a public, not-for-profit, or voluntary qualified entity to reduce the amount of fees charged for such background checks.

(2) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under paragraph (1) a total of $20,000,000 for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002.

(c) Withholding State funds Effective 1 year after December 20, 1993, the Attorney General may reduce, by up to 10 percent, the allocation to a State for a fiscal year under title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [[34 U.S.C. 10101](/us/usc/t34/s10101) et seq.] that is not in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 103–209, § 4](/us/pl/103/209/s4), Dec. 20, 1993, [107 Stat. 2493](/us/stat/107/2493); [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII, § 320928(d)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXII/s320928/d), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2132](/us/stat/108/2132); [Pub. L. 105–251, title II, § 222(c)](/us/pl/105/251/tII/s222/c), Oct. 9, 1998, [112 Stat. 1885](/us/stat/112/1885).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 197](/us/stat/82/197). Title I of the Act is classified principally to chapter 101 (§ 10101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 4 of Pub. L. 103–209](/us/pl/103/209/s4). Subsec. (a) of [section 4 of Pub. L. 103–209](/us/pl/103/209/s4) amended former [section 3759(b) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3759/b), The Public Health and Welfare.

Section was formerly classified to [section 5119b of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5119b), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 105–251](/us/pl/105/251) substituted “1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002” for “1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997”.

1994—Subsec. (b)(1)(E). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), which directed the amendment of subsec. (b) by adding subpar. (E) at the end, was executed by adding subpar. (E) at the end of par. (1) of subsec. (b) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Availability of Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund To Fund Activities Authorized by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act and the National Child Protection Act of 1993

For appropriations for amounts authorized in subsec. (b) of this section from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund established by [section 12631 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12631), see [section 210603(a) of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s210603/a), set out as a note under [section 922 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s922), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
