---
title: "§ 1221j. Television program assistance"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1221j"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1221j"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XV, § 1527](/us/pl/95/561/tXV/s1527), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2379](/us/stat/92/2379); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)"
---
# § 1221j. Television program assistance

##### § 1221j. Television program assistance

(a) Granting and contracting authority The Secretary of Education is authorized to make grants to and contracts with public and private agencies for the production, development, or distribution (or any combination thereof) of programs designed for television systems, whether broadcast or nonbroadcast.

(b) Administration and studies The Secretary of Education shall be responsible for the administration of this section and shall also conduct surveys, research, and evaluation studies which may assist in decisions to support pilot programs for full scale production.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XV, § 1527](/us/pl/95/561/tXV/s1527), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2379](/us/stat/92/2379); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of Education Amendments of 1978, and not as part of General Education Provisions Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1978, see [section 1530 of Pub. L. 95–561](/us/pl/95/561/s1530), set out as an Effective Date of 1974 Amendment note under [section 1221e–3 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221e–3).

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary of Education” substituted for “Secretary” in subsec. (a) and “Assistant Secretary for Education” in subsec. (b), pursuant to sections 301 and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441 and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions (relating to education) of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and functions of Assistant Secretary for Education, to Secretary of Education.
