---
title: "§ 3114. Regional and structural employment policies and programs"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–523, title II, § 204](/us/pl/95/523/tII/s204), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1901](/us/stat/92/1901).)"
---
# § 3114. Regional and structural employment policies and programs

##### § 3114. Regional and structural employment policies and programs

(a) Recommendation of legislation To the extent deemed appropriate by the President in fulfillment of the purposes of [section 3111 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3111), the President shall recommend legislation to the Congress if necessary, regional and structural employment policies and programs.

(b) Private sector production and employment; effect of Federal policies In formulating the regional components of any such programs, the President shall encourage to the extent the President deems necessary, new private sector production and employment to locate within depressed localities and regions with substantial unemployment and to aid in stabilizing their economic base. To the extent feasible, such policies and programs shall foster the establishment and growth of smaller businesses in such localities and regions. Any regional employment proposal of the President shall also include an analysis of the extent to which Federal tax, expenditure (including procurement of goods and services), defense, transportation, energy, natural resources and employment policies have influenced the movement of people, jobs, and small and larger business and industries from chronic high unemployment regions and areas, and proposals designed to correct Federal policies that have an adverse economic impact upon such regions and areas.

*([Pub. L. 95–523, title II, § 204](/us/pl/95/523/tII/s204), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1901](/us/stat/92/1901).)*
