---
title: "§ 18933. Software security and authentication"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18933"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18933"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10224](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10224), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/136/1478).)"
---
# § 18933. Software security and authentication

##### § 18933. Software security and authentication

(a) Vulnerabilities in open source software The Director shall assign severity metrics to identified vulnerabilities with open source software and produce voluntary guidance to assist the entities that maintain open source software repositories to discover and mitigate vulnerabilities.

(b) Artificial intelligence-enabled defenses The Director shall carry out research and testing to improve the effectiveness of artificial intelligence-enabled cybersecurity, including by generating optimized data sets to train artificial intelligence defense systems and evaluating the performance of varying network architectures at strengthening network security.

(c) Authentication of Institute software The Director shall ensure all software released by the Institute is digitally signed and maintained to enable stakeholders to verify its authenticity and integrity upon installation and execution.

(d) Assistance to Inspectors General Subject to available funding, the Director shall provide technical assistance to improve the education and training of individual Federal agency Inspectors General and staff who are responsible for the annual independent evaluation they are required to perform of the information security program and practices of Federal agencies under [section 3555 of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3555).

(e) Software supply chain security practices

(1) In general The Director shall, in coordination with industry, academia, and other Federal agencies, as appropriate, develop a set of security outcomes and practices, including security controls, control enhancements, supplemental guidance, or other supporting information to enable software developers and operators to identify, assess, and manage cybersecurity risks over the full lifecycle of software products.

(2) Outreach The Director shall conduct outreach and coordination activities to share technical expertise with Federal agencies, relevant industry stakeholders, and standards development organizations, as appropriate, to encourage the voluntary adoption of the software lifecycle security practices by Federal agencies and industry stakeholders.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10224](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10224), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/136/1478).)*
