---
title: "§ 7105b. Improving domestic victim screening procedures"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7105b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7105b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 107B](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s107B), as added [Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s303/a), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5273](/us/stat/132/5273).)"
---
# § 7105b. Improving domestic victim screening procedures

##### § 7105b. Improving domestic victim screening procedures

(a) Victim screening tools Not later than October 1, 2018, the Attorney General shall compile and disseminate, to all grantees who are awarded grants to provide victims’ services under subsection (b) or (f) of [section 7105 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7105), information about reliable and effective tools for the identification of victims of human trafficking.

(b) Use of screening procedures Beginning not later than October 1, 2018, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall identify recommended practices for the screening of human trafficking victims and shall encourage the use of such practices by grantees receiving a grant to provide victim services to youth under subsection (b) or (f) of [section 7105 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7105).

*([Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 107B](/us/pl/106/386/dA/s107B), as added [Pub. L. 115–393, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/115/393/tIII/s303/a), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5273](/us/stat/132/5273).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (f) of [section 7105 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7105), referred to in text, was in the original a reference to subsec. (f) of [section 107 of Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386/s107) and was translated as referring to [section 7105(f) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s7105/f), which relates to assistance for trafficking victims who are United States citizens and lawful permanent residents. Another subsec. (f) of [section 107 of Pub. L. 106–386](/us/pl/106/386/s107) amended [section 1255 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1255), Aliens and Nationality.
