---
title: "§ 5171. Federal facilities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s405), formerly § 401, May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 153](/us/stat/88/153); renumbered § 405, [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 106(a)(2)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s106/a/2), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4696](/us/stat/102/4696).)"
---
# § 5171. Federal facilities

##### § 5171. Federal facilities

(a) Repair, reconstruction, restoration, or replacement of United States facilities The President may authorize any Federal agency to repair, reconstruct, restore, or replace any facility owned by the United States and under the jurisdiction of such agency which is damaged or destroyed by any major disaster if he determines that such repair, reconstruction, restoration, or replacement is of such importance and urgency that it cannot reasonably be deferred pending the enactment of specific authorizing legislation or the making of an appropriation for such purposes, or the obtaining of congressional committee approval.

(b) Availability of funds appropriated to agency for repair, reconstruction, restoration, or replacement of agency facilities In order to carry out the provisions of this section, such repair, reconstruction, restoration, or replacement may be begun notwithstanding a lack or an insufficiency of funds appropriated for such purpose, where such lack or insufficiency can be remedied by the transfer, in accordance with law, of funds appropriated to that agency for another purpose.

(c) Steps for mitigation of hazards In implementing this section, Federal agencies shall evaluate the natural hazards to which these facilities are exposed and shall take appropriate action to mitigate such hazards, including safe land-use and construction practices, in accordance with standards prescribed by the President.

*([Pub. L. 93–288, title IV, § 405](/us/pl/93/288/tIV/s405), formerly § 401, May 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 153](/us/stat/88/153); renumbered § 405, [Pub. L. 100–707, title I, § 106(a)(2)](/us/pl/100/707/tI/s106/a/2), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4696](/us/stat/102/4696).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 405 of Pub. L. 93–288](/us/pl/93/288/s405) was classified to [section 5175 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s5175) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–707](/us/pl/100/707).
