---
title: "§ 10142. Duties and functions of Director"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10142"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10142"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 402](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s402), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4328](/us/stat/102/4328); amended [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/b/1), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4813](/us/stat/104/4813).)"
---
# § 10142. Duties and functions of Director

##### § 10142. Duties and functions of Director

(1) Providing funds to eligible States, units of local government, and nonprofit organizations pursuant to subchapters V and XIII.

(2) Establishing programs in accordance with part B of subchapter V and, following public announcement of such programs, awarding and allocating funds and technical assistance in accordance with the criteria of part B of subchapter V, and on terms and conditions determined by the Director to be consistent with part B of subchapter V.

(3) Cooperating with and providing technical assistance to States, units of local government, and other public and private organizations or international agencies involved in criminal justice activities.

(4) Providing for the development of technical assistance and training programs for State and local criminal justice agencies and fostering local participation in such activities.

(5) Encouraging the targeting of State and local resources on efforts to reduce the incidence of drug abuse and crime and on programs relating to the apprehension and prosecution of drug offenders.

(6) Establishing and carrying on a specific and continuing program of cooperation with the States and units of local government designed to encourage and promote consultation and coordination concerning decisions made by the Bureau affecting State and local drug control and criminal justice priorities.

(7) Preparing recommendations on the State and local drug enforcement component of the National Drug Control Strategy which shall be submitted to the Associate Director of the Office on National Drug Control Policy. In making such recommendations, the Director shall review the statewide strategies submitted by such States under subchapter V, and shall obtain input from State and local drug enforcement officials. The recommendations made under this paragraph shall be provided at such time and in such form as the Director of National Drug Control Policy shall require.

(8) Exercising such other powers and functions as may be vested in the Director pursuant to this chapter or by delegation of the Attorney General or Assistant Attorney General.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 402](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s402), as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4328](/us/stat/102/4328); amended [Pub. L. 101–647, title II, § 241(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/647/tII/s241/b/1), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4813](/us/stat/104/4813).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3742 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3742), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 402 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s402), title I, as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 606](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s606), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2080](/us/stat/98/2080), related to duties and functions of Director, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VI, § 6091(a)](/us/pl/100/690/tVI/s6091/a), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4328](/us/stat/102/4328).

Another prior [section 402 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s402), title I, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1181](/us/stat/93/1181), related to eligibility provisions for formula grants, prior to the general amendment of part D of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473).

Another prior [section 402 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s402), title I, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 203](/us/stat/82/203); [Pub. L. 93–83, § 2](/us/pl/93/83/s2), Aug. 6, 1973, [87 Stat. 205](/us/stat/87/205); [Pub. L. 94–503, title I, § 117](/us/pl/94/503/tI/s117), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2416](/us/stat/90/2416), provided for creation of a National Institute of Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice, prior to the general amendment of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 96–157](/us/pl/96/157).

#### Amendments

1990—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) substituted “subchapters V and XII–B” for “subchapter V”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in pars. (3) to (6) of this section, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
