---
title: "§ 430f–5. Siege and Battle of Corinth"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430f–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430f–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/104/333/dI/tVI/s602), Nov. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 4171](/us/stat/110/4171).)"
---
# § 430f–5. Siege and Battle of Corinth

##### § 430f–5. Siege and Battle of Corinth

(a) Purpose The purpose of this section is to provide for a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other Civil War actions in the Region and to enhance public understanding of the significance of the Corinth Campaign in the Civil War relative to the Western theater of operations, in cooperation with State or local governmental entities and private organizations and individuals.

(b) Acquisition of property at Corinth, Mississippi The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this title 11 See References in Text note below. as the “Secretary”) shall acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, such land and interests in land in the vicinity of the Corinth Battlefield, in the State of Mississippi, as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the construction of an interpretive center to commemorate and interpret the 1862 Civil War Siege and Battle of Corinth.

(c) Publicly owned land Land and interests in land owned by the State of Mississippi or a political subdivision of the State of Mississippi may be acquired only by donation.

(d) Interpretive center and marking

(1) Interpretive center The Secretary shall construct, operate, and maintain on the property acquired under subsection (b) a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and associated historical events for the benefit of the public.

(2) Marking The Secretary may mark sites associated with the Siege and Battle of Corinth National Historic Landmark, as designated on May 6, 1991, if the sites are determined by the Secretary to be protected by State or local governmental agencies.

(3) Administration The land and interests in land acquired, and the facilities constructed and maintained pursuant to this section, shall be administered by the Secretary as a part of Shiloh National Military Park, subject to the appropriate laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park, the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1) et seq.),^1 and the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes”, approved August 21, 1935 ([16 U.S.C. 461](/us/usc/t16/s461) et seq.).^1

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 for development to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/104/333/dI/tVI/s602), Nov. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 4171](/us/stat/110/4171).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (b), is title VI of div. I of [Pub. L. 104–333](/us/pl/104/333), which enacted this section, former [section 469k of this title](/us/usc/t16/s469k), provisions formerly set out as a note under [section 1a–5 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1a–5), and provisions listed in a table of National Battlefield Sites set out under [section 320101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s320101), National Park Service and Related Programs.

The Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, amended sections 22 and 43 of this title and [section 1457 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1457), Public Lands, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1). Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

The Act entitled “An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes”, approved August 21, 1935 ([16 U.S.C. 461](/us/usc/t16/s461) et seq.), referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is [act Aug. 21, 1935, ch. 593](/us/act/1935-08-21/ch593), [49 Stat. 666](/us/stat/49/666), known as the Historic Sites Act of 1935 and also as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act, which enacted sections 461 to 467 of this title. The Act was repealed and restated as [section 1866(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1866/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and sections 102303 and 102304 and chapter 3201 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).
