---
title: "§ 11201. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 302](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s302), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/88/1129); [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(a)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/a), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5017](/us/stat/106/5017); [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(a)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/a), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/113/1035); [Pub. L. 108–96, title I, § 101](/us/pl/108/96/tI/s101), Oct. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/117/1167); [Pub. L. 110–378, § 2](/us/pl/110/378/s2), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4068](/us/stat"
---
# § 11201. Findings

##### § 11201. Findings

(1) youth who have become homeless or who leave and remain away from home without parental permission, are at risk of developing, and have a disproportionate share of, serious health, behavioral, and emotional problems because they lack sufficient resources to obtain care and may live on the street for extended periods thereby endangering themselves and creating a substantial law enforcement problem for communities in which they congregate;

(2) many such young people, because of their age and situation, are urgently in need of temporary shelter and services, including services that are linguistically appropriate and acknowledge the environment of youth seeking these services;

(3) services to such young people should be developed and provided using a positive youth development approach that ensures a young person a sense of—

(A) safety and structure;

(B) belonging and membership;

(C) self-worth and social contribution;

(D) independence and control over one’s life; and

(E) closeness in interpersonal relationships.11 So in original. The period probably should be a semicolon.

(4) in view of the interstate nature of the problem, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to develop an accurate national reporting system to report the problem, and to assist in the development of an effective system of care (including preventive and aftercare services, emergency shelter services, extended residential shelter, and street outreach services) outside the welfare system and the law enforcement system;

(5) to make a successful transition to adulthood, runaway youth, homeless youth, and other street youth need opportunities to complete high school or earn a general equivalency degree, learn job skills, and obtain employment; and

(6) improved coordination and collaboration between the Federal programs that serve runaway and homeless youth are necessary for the development of a long-term strategy for responding to the needs of this population.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 302](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s302), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1129](/us/stat/88/1129); [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(a)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/a), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5017](/us/stat/106/5017); [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(a)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/a), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1035](/us/stat/113/1035); [Pub. L. 108–96, title I, § 101](/us/pl/108/96/tI/s101), Oct. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/117/1167); [Pub. L. 110–378, § 2](/us/pl/110/378/s2), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4068](/us/stat/122/4068).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5701 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5701), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2008—Pars. (3) to (6). [Pub. L. 110–378](/us/pl/110/378) added par. (3) and redesignated former pars. (3) to (5) as (4) to (6), respectively.

2003—[Pub. L. 108–96](/us/pl/108/96) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section contained congressional statement of findings.

1999—Par. (5). [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/a/1), substituted “an accurate national reporting system to report the problem, and to assist in the development of” for “accurate reporting of the problem nationally and to develop”.

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/a/2), added par. (8) and struck out former par. (8) which read as follows: “in view of the interstate nature of the problem, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to develop an accurate national reporting system and to develop an effective system of care including prevention, emergency shelter services, and longer residential care outside the public welfare and law enforcement structures;”.

1992—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(a)(1)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/a/1), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “the number of juveniles who leave and remain away from home without parental permission has increased to alarming proportions, creating a substantial law enforcement problem for the communities inundated, and significantly endangering the young people who are without resources and live on the street;”.

Par. (5). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/a/3), substituted “care (including preventive services, emergency shelter services, and extended residential shelter) outside the welfare system and the law enforcement system;” for “temporary care outside the law enforcement structure.”

Pars. (6) to (10). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/a/2), (4), added pars. (6) to (10).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

For short title of title III of [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), which is classified to this subchapter, as the “Runaway and Homeless Youth Act”, see [section 301 of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s301), set out as a Short Title of 1974 Act note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
