---
title: "§ 3691. Change of program"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3691"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3691"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 92–540, title III, § 316(2)](/us/pl/92/540/tIII/s316/2), Oct. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/86/1089), § 1791; amended [Pub. L. 94–502, title V, § 513(a)(20)](/us/pl/94/502/tV/s513/a/20), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2403](/us/stat/90/2403); [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 208(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s208/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 443](/us/stat/104/443)"
---
# § 3691. Change of program

##### § 3691. Change of program

(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, each eligible veteran and eligible person may make not more than one change of program of education, but an eligible veteran or eligible person whose program has been interrupted or discontinued due to the veteran’s or person’s own misconduct, the veteran’s or person’s own neglect, or the veteran’s or person’s own lack of application shall not be entitled to any such change.

(b) The Secretary, in accordance with procedures that the Secretary may establish, may approve a change other than a change under subsection (a) of this section (or an initial change in the case of a veteran or person not eligible to make a change under subsection (a)) in program if the Secretary finds that—

(1) the program of education which the eligible veteran or eligible person proposes to pursue is suitable to the veteran’s or person’s aptitudes, interests, and abilities; and

(2) in any instance where the eligible veteran or eligible person has interrupted, or failed to progress in, the veteran’s or person’s program due to the veteran’s or person’s own misconduct, the veteran’s or person’s own neglect, or the veteran’s or person’s own lack of application, there exists a reasonable likelihood with respect to the program which the eligible veteran or eligible person proposes to pursue that there will not be a recurrence of such an interruption or failure to progress.

(c) The Secretary may also approve additional changes in program if the Secretary finds such changes are necessitated by circumstances beyond the control of the eligible veteran or eligible person.

(d)

(1) For the purposes of this section, the term “change of program of education” shall not be deemed to include a change by a veteran or eligible person from the pursuit of one program to the pursuit of another program if—

(A) the veteran or eligible person has successfully completed the former program;

(B) the program leads to a vocational, educational, or professional objective in the same general field as the former program;

(C) the former program is a prerequisite to, or generally required for, pursuit of the subsequent program;

(D) in the case of a change from the pursuit of a subsequent program to the pursuit of a former program, the veteran or eligible person resumes pursuit of the former program without loss of credit or standing in the former program; or

(E) the change from the program to another program is at the same educational institution and such educational institution determines that the new program is suitable to the aptitudes, interests, and abilities of the veteran or eligible person and certifies to the Secretary the enrollment of the veteran or eligible person in the new program.

(2) A veteran or eligible person undergoing a change from one program of education to another program of education as described in paragraph (1)(E) shall not be required to apply to the Secretary for approval of such change.

*(Added [Pub. L. 92–540, title III, § 316(2)](/us/pl/92/540/tIII/s316/2), Oct. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/86/1089), § 1791; amended [Pub. L. 94–502, title V, § 513(a)(20)](/us/pl/94/502/tV/s513/a/20), Oct. 15, 1976, [90 Stat. 2403](/us/stat/90/2403); [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); [Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 208(a)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s208/a), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 443](/us/stat/104/443); renumbered § 3691, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406); [Pub. L. 102–568, title III, § 317](/us/pl/102/568/tIII/s317), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4334](/us/stat/106/4334); [Pub. L. 110–389, title III, § 324](/us/pl/110/389/tIII/s324), Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4168](/us/stat/122/4168).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those comprising this section were contained in former section 1672, as added by [Pub. L. 89–358, § 2](/us/pl/89/358/s2), Mar. 3, 1966, [80 Stat. 15](/us/stat/80/15); and former section 1722, [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1196](/us/stat/72/1196), prior to repeal by sections 401(6) and 402(2) of [Pub. L. 92–540](/us/pl/92/540), respectively.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 110–389](/us/pl/110/389) designated existing provisions as par. (1), redesignated former pars. (1) to (4) as subpars. (A) to (D) of par. (1), respectively, and added subpar. (E) of par. (1) and par. (2).

1992—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–568](/us/pl/102/568) amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) read as follows: “As used in this section the term ‘change of program of education’ shall not be deemed to include a change from the pursuit of one program to pursuit of another where the first program is prerequisite to, or generally required for, entrance into pursuit of the second.”

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1791 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1791) as this section.

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–366](/us/pl/101/366) substituted “The Secretary, in accordance with procedures that the Secretary may establish, may approve a change other than a change under subsection (a) of this section” for “The Secretary may approve one additional change”.

1989—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 101–237](/us/pl/101/237) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–502](/us/pl/94/502) substituted “the veteran’s or person’s” for “his” in three places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–502](/us/pl/94/502) substituted “if the Administrator finds” for “if he finds” and “the veteran’s or person’s” for “his” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–502](/us/pl/94/502) substituted “if the Administrator finds” for “if he finds”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

[Pub. L. 101–366, title II, § 208(b)](/us/pl/101/366/tII/s208/b), Aug. 15, 1990, [104 Stat. 443](/us/stat/104/443), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on June 1, 1991.”

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–502](/us/pl/94/502) effective Oct. 15, 1976, see [section 703(b) of Pub. L. 94–502](/us/pl/94/502/s703/b), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3693 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3693).
