---
title: "§ 13366. National clearinghouse"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13366"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13366"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XIII, § 1337](/us/pl/102/486/tXIII/s1337), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/106/2985).)"
---
# § 13366. National clearinghouse

##### § 13366. National clearinghouse

(a) Feasibility

(1) The Secretary shall assess the feasibility of establishing a national clearinghouse for the exchange and dissemination of technical information on technology relating to coal and coal-derived fuels.

(2) In assessing the feasibility, the Secretary shall consider whether such a clearinghouse would be appropriate for purposes of—

(A) collecting information and data on technology relating to coal, and coal-derived fuels, which can be utilized to improve environmental quality and increase energy independence;

(B) disseminating to appropriate individuals, governmental departments, agencies, and instrumentalities, institutions of higher education, and other entities, information and data collected pursuant to this section;

(C) maintaining a library of technology publications and treatises relating to technology information and data collected pursuant to this section;

(D) organizing and conducting seminars for government officials, utilities, coal companies, and other entities or institutions relating to technology using coal and coal-derived fuels that will improve environmental quality and increase energy independence;

(E) gathering information on research grants made for the purpose of improving or enhancing technology relating to the use of coal, and coal-derived fuels, which will improve environmental quality and increase energy independence;

(F) translating into English foreign research papers, articles, seminar proceedings, test results that affect, or could affect, clean coal use technology, and other documents;

(G) encouraging, during the testing of technologies, the use of coal from a variety of domestic sources, and collecting or developing, or both, complete listings of test results using coals from all sources;

(H) establishing and maintaining an index or compilation of research projects relating to clean coal technology carried out throughout the world; and

(I) conducting economic modeling for feasibility of projects.

(b) Authority to establish clearinghouse Based upon the assessment under subsection (a), the Secretary may establish a clearinghouse.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XIII, § 1337](/us/pl/102/486/tXIII/s1337), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2985](/us/stat/106/2985).)*
