---
title: "§ 1526. Effective use of resources for nonproliferation programs"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1526"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1526"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. B, title XI, § 1132]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dB/tXI/s1132), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–493)."
---
# § 1526. Effective use of resources for nonproliferation programs

##### § 1526. Effective use of resources for nonproliferation programs

(a) Prohibition Except as provided in subsection (b), no assistance may be provided by the United States Government to any person who is involved in the research, development, design, testing, or evaluation of chemical or biological weapons for offensive purposes.

(b) Exception The prohibition contained in subsection (a) shall not apply to any activity conducted pursuant to title V of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3091](/us/usc/t50/s3091) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. B, title XI, § 1132]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dB/tXI/s1132), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–493).*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Security Act of 1947, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), [61 Stat. 495](/us/stat/61/495), which was formerly classified principally to chapter 15 (§ 401 et seq.) of this title, prior to editorial reclassification in chapter 44 (§ 3001 et seq.) of this title. Title V of the Act is now classified generally to subchapter III (§ 3091 et seq.) of chapter 44 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Arms Control and Nonproliferation Act of 1999, and also as part of the Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Security Assistance Act of 1999, and the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years, 2000 and 2001, and not as part of [Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409](/us/pl/91/121/tIV/s409), Nov. 19, 1969, [83 Stat. 209](/us/stat/83/209), which comprises this chapter.
