---
title: "§ 6235. Deposit and expenditure of use fees"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6235"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6235"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title V, § 506](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tV/s506), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 297](/us/stat/117/297).)"
---
# § 6235. Deposit and expenditure of use fees

##### § 6235. Deposit and expenditure of use fees

(a) Deposit and availability Unless subject to [section 580d of this title](/us/usc/t16/s580d), use fees collected by the Secretary under this chapter shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury and shall remain available to the Secretary for expenditure, without further appropriation until expended, for the purposes described in subsection (c).

(b) Transfer Upon request of the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer to the Secretary from the special account such amounts as the Secretary may request. The Secretary shall accept and use such amounts in accordance with subsection (c).

(c) Use Use fees deposited pursuant to subsection (a) and transferred to the Secretary under subsection (b) shall be expended for monitoring of Forest Service special use authorizations, administration of the Forest Service’s special program, interpretive programs, environmental analysis, environmental restoration, and similar purposes.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title V, § 506](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tV/s506), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 297](/us/stat/117/297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, which was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title V of div. F of [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7), known as the National Forest Organizational Camp Fee Improvement Act of 2003, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
