---
title: "§ 906. Congressional Record: gratuitous copies; delivery"
identifier: "USC-T44-S906"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section906"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1256](/us/stat/82/1256); [Pub. L. 91–276](/us/pl/91/276), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 303](/us/stat/84/303); [Pub. L. 92–373](/us/pl/92/373), Aug. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 528](/us/stat/86/528); [Pub. L. 93–314, § 1(b)](/us/pl/93/314/s1/b), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 239](/us/stat/88/239); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 407(a)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s407/a), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683); [Pub. L. 96–417, title VI, § 601(11)](/us/pl/96/417/"
---
# § 906. Congressional Record: gratuitous copies; delivery

##### § 906. Congressional Record: gratuitous copies; delivery

The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall furnish the Congressional Record only as follows:

of the bound edition—

to the Senate Service Department five copies for the Vice President and each Senator;

to the Secretary and Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, each, two copies;

to the Joint Committee on Printing not to exceed one hundred copies;

to the House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service, three copies for each Representative and Resident Commissioner in Congress; and

to the Clerk and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, each, two copies;

of the daily edition—

to the Vice President, one hundred copies;

to each Senator, fifty copies (which may be transferred only to public agencies and institutions);

to the Secretary and Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, each, twenty-five copies;

to the Secretary, for official use, not to exceed thirty-five copies; and

to the Sergeant at Arms for use on the floor of the Senate, not to exceed fifty copies;

to each Member of the House of Representatives, the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico, the Delegate from the District of Columbia, the Delegate from Guam, and the Delegate from the Virgin Islands, thirty-four copies (which may be transferred only to public agencies and institutions);

to the Clerk and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, each, twenty-five copies;

to the Clerk, for official use, not to exceed fifty copies, and to the Clerk for use on the floor of the House of Representatives, not to exceed seventy-five copies;

to the Vice President and each Senator, Representative, and Resident Commissioner in Congress (and not transferable) three copies of which one shall be delivered at his residence, one at his office, and one at the Capitol.

In addition to the foregoing the Congressional Record shall also be furnished as follows:

In unstitched form, and held in reserve by the Director of the Government Publishing Office, as many copies of the daily Record as may be required to supply a semimonthly edition, bound in paper cover together with each semimonthly index when it is issued, and then be delivered promptly as follows:

to each committee and commission of Congress, one daily and one semimonthly copy;

to each joint committee and joint commission in Congress, as may be designated by the Joint Committee on Printing, two copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the Secretary and the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, for office use, each, six semimonthly copies;

to the Clerk and the Sergeant at Arms of the House, for office use, each, six semimonthly copies;

to the Joint Committee on Printing, ten semimonthly copies;

to the Vice President and each Senator, Representative, and Resident Commissioner in Congress, one semimonthly copy;

to the President of the United States, for the use of the Executive Office, ten copies of the daily, two semimonthly copies, and one bound copy;

to the Chief Justice of the United States and each of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, one copy of the daily;

to the offices of the marshal and clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States, each, two copies of the daily and one semimonthly copy;

to each United States circuit and district judge, and to the chief judge and each associate judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims, the United States Court of International Trade, the Tax Court of the United States, the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, upon request to a member of Congress and notification by the Member to the Director of the Government Publishing Office, one copy of the daily, in addition to those authorized to be furnished to Members of Congress under the preceding provisions of this section;

to the offices of the Vice President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, each, six copies of the daily and one semimonthly copy;

to the Sergeant at Arms, the Chaplain, the Postmaster, the superintendent and the foreman of the Senate Service Department and of the House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service, respectively; and to the Secretaries to the Majority and the Minority of the Senate, each, one copy of the daily;

to the office of the Parliamentarian of the House of Representatives, six copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and two bound copies;

to the offices of the Official Reporters of Debates of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, each, fifteen copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and three bound copies;

to the office of the stenographers to committees of the House of Representatives, four copies of the daily and one semimonthly copy;

to the office of the Congressional Record Index, ten copies of the daily and two semimonthly copies;

to the offices of the superintendent of the Senate and House document rooms, each, three copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the offices of the superintendents of the Senate and House press galleries, each, two copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the offices of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and the Architect of the Capitol, each, three copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the Library of Congress for official use in Washington, District of Columbia, and for international exchange, as provided by sections 1718 and 1719 of this title, not to exceed one hundred and forty-five copies of the daily, five semimonthly copies, and one hundred and fifty bound copies;

to the library of the Senate, three copies of the daily, two semimonthly copies, and not to exceed fifteen bound copies;

to the library of the House of Representatives, five copies of the daily, two semimonthly copies, and not to exceed twenty-eight bound copies, of which eight copies may be bound in the style and manner approved by the Joint Committee on Printing;

to the library of the Supreme Court of the United States, two copies of the daily, two semimonthly copies, and not to exceed five bound copies;

to the library of each United States Court of Appeals, each United States District Court, the United States Court of Federal Claims, the United States Court of International Trade, the Tax Court of the United States, the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, upon request to the Director of the Government Publishing Office, one copy of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the Director of the Government Publishing Office for official use, not to exceed seventy-five copies of the daily, ten semimonthly copies, and two bound copies;

to the Director of the Botanic Garden, two copies of the daily and one semimonthly copy;

to the Archivist of the United States, five copies of the daily, two semimonthly copies, and two bound copies;

to the library of each executive department, independent office, and establishment of the Government in the District of Columbia, except those designated as depository libraries, and to the libraries of the municipal government of the District of Columbia, the Naval Observatory, and the Smithsonian Institution, each, two copies of the daily, one semimonthly copy, and one bound copy;

to the offices of the Governors of Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands, each, five copies in both daily and bound form;

to the office of the Governor of the Canal Zone, five copies in both daily and bound form;

to each ex-President and ex-Vice President of the United States, one copy of the daily;

to each former Senator, Representative, and Commissioner from Puerto Rico, upon request to the Director of the Government Publishing Office, one copy of the daily;

to the Governor of each State, one copy in both daily and bound form;

to each separate establishment of the Armed Forces Retirement Home, to each of the National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, and to each of the State soldiers’ homes, one copy of the daily;

to the Superintendent of Documents, as many daily and bound copies as may be required for distribution to depository libraries;

to the Department of State, not to exceed one hundred and fifty copies of the daily, for distribution to each United States embassy and legation abroad, and to the principal consular offices in the discretion of the Secretary of State;

to each foreign legation in Washington whose government extends a like courtesy to our embassies and legations abroad, one copy of the daily, to be furnished upon requisition of and sent through the Secretary of State;

to each newspaper correspondent whose name appears in the Congressional Directory, and who makes application, for his personal use and that of the papers he represents, one copy of the daily and one copy of the bound, the same to be sent to the office address of the member of the press or elsewhere as he directs; not to exceed four copies in all may be furnished to members of the same press bureau.

Copies of the daily edition, unless otherwise directed by the Joint Committee on Printing, shall be supplied and delivered promptly on the day after the actual day’s proceedings as originally published. Each order for the daily Record shall begin with the current issue, if previous issues of the same session are not available. The apportionment specified for daily copies may not be transferred for the bound form and an allotment of daily copies not used by a Member during a session shall lapse when the session ends.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1256](/us/stat/82/1256); [Pub. L. 91–276](/us/pl/91/276), June 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 303](/us/stat/84/303); [Pub. L. 92–373](/us/pl/92/373), Aug. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 528](/us/stat/86/528); [Pub. L. 93–314, § 1(b)](/us/pl/93/314/s1/b), June 8, 1974, [88 Stat. 239](/us/stat/88/239); [Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 407(a)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s407/a), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683); [Pub. L. 96–417, title VI, § 601(11)](/us/pl/96/417/tVI/s601/11), Oct. 10, 1980, [94 Stat. 1744](/us/stat/94/1744); [Pub. L. 97–164, title I, § 164(2)](/us/pl/97/164/tI/s164/2), Apr. 2, 1982, [96 Stat. 50](/us/stat/96/50); [Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XV, § 1533(c)(3)](/us/pl/101/510/dA/tXV/s1533/c/3), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 1736](/us/stat/104/1736); [Pub. L. 102–82, § 6](/us/pl/102/82/s6), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 377](/us/stat/105/377); [Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/572/tIX/s902/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4516](/us/stat/106/4516); [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title IX, § 924(d)(1)(D)](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tIX/s924/d/1/D), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2832](/us/stat/108/2832); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 223(7)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s223/7), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1751](/us/stat/110/1751); [Pub. L. 105–368, title V, § 512(b)(1)(C)](/us/pl/105/368/tV/s512/b/1/C), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3342](/us/stat/112/3342); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 183 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 73](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s73), [28 Stat. 617](/us/stat/28/617); [June 11, 1896, ch. 420, § 1](/us/act/1896-06-11/ch420/s1), [29 Stat. 454](/us/stat/29/454); Mar. 19, 1896, No. 31, [29 Stat. 468](/us/stat/29/468); Feb. 17, 1897, No. 12, [29 Stat. 700](/us/stat/29/700); Mar. 26, 1900, No. 15, [31 Stat. 713](/us/stat/31/713); Mar. 2, 1901, No. 16, §§ 1, 2, [31 Stat. 1464](/us/stat/31/1464); [Jan. 30, 1903, ch. 338](/us/act/1903-01-30/ch338), [32 Stat. 786](/us/stat/32/786); [Mar. 1, 1907, ch. 2284, § 4](/us/act/1907-03-01/ch2284/s4), [34 Stat. 1014](/us/stat/34/1014); [Mar. 4, 1909, ch. 317](/us/act/1909-03-04/ch317), [35 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/35/1067); Mar. 4, 1909, No. 25, [35 Stat. 1169](/us/stat/35/1169); [Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 421, § 7](/us/act/1925-03-03/ch421/s7), [43 Stat. 1106](/us/stat/43/1106); [June 20, 1936, ch. 630](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch630), title II, § 3, [49 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/49/1547); Proc. No. 2695, July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, [60 Stat. 1352](/us/stat/60/1352); [June 30, 1949, ch. 288](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288), title I, § 104(a), [63 Stat. 381](/us/stat/63/381); [Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, § 2(b)](/us/act/1950-09-26/ch1049/s2/b), [64 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/64/1038); [July 2, 1954, ch. 455](/us/act/1954-07-02/ch455), title I, § 101, [68 Stat. 397](/us/stat/68/397); [Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 852, § 20](/us/act/1956-08-01/ch852/s20), [70 Stat. 911](/us/stat/70/911); June 25, 1959, [Pub. L. 86–70, § 33](/us/pl/86/70/s33), [73 Stat. 149](/us/stat/73/149); July 12, 1960, [Pub. L. 86–624, § 32](/us/pl/86/624/s32), [74 Stat. 421](/us/stat/74/421); Mar. 21, 1961, [Pub. L. 87–2](/us/pl/87/2), [75 Stat. 5](/us/stat/75/5); July 11, 1961, [Pub. L. 87–85](/us/pl/87/85), [75 Stat. 202](/us/stat/75/202)).

“House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service” is substituted for “House Folding Room” because of the change of name under authority of [Public Law 88–652](/us/pl/88/652).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Provisions respecting National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, referred to in text, were formerly classified to chapter 3 (section 71 et seq.) of Title 24, Hospitals and Asylums, and were repealed by [Pub. L. 85–857, § 14](/us/pl/85/857/s14), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1268–1272](/us/stat/72/1268-1272), and [Pub. L. 85–56, title XXII, § 2202](/us/pl/85/56/tXXII/s2202), June 17, 1957, [71 Stat. 162](/us/stat/71/162), 164, 166.

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235) substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” wherever appearing.

1998—[Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368) substituted “Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims” for “Court of Veterans Appeals” in two places.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “to the Clerk and the Sergeant at Arms” for “to the Clerk, Sergeant at Arms, and Doorkeeper” in three places, “to the Clerk for use on the floor” for “to the Doorkeeper for use on the floor”, and “and to the Secretaries to the Majority and the Minority of the Senate” for “to the Secretaries to the Majority and the Minority of the Senate, and to the Doorkeeper of the House of Representatives”.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337) substituted “Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces” for “Court of Military Appeals” in two places.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court” in two places.

1991—[Pub. L. 102–82](/us/pl/102/82) inserted “the United States Court of Veterans Appeals,” after “the Tax Court of the United States,” in two places.

1990—[Pub. L. 101–510](/us/pl/101/510) substituted “each separate establishment of the Armed Forces Retirement Home,” for “the United States Soldiers’ Home and”.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) substituted “the United States Claims Court” for “the United States Court of Claims, the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals” in two places.

1980—[Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417) redesignated the United States Customs Court as the United States Court of International Trade.

1977—[Pub. L. 95–94](/us/pl/95/94) substituted “to the Vice President, one hundred copies; to each Senator, fifty copies (which may be transferred only to public agencies and institutions);” for “to the Vice President and each Senator, one hundred copies:” and “to each Member of the House of Representatives, the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico, the Delegate from the District of Columbia, the Delegate from Guam, and the Delegate from the Virgin Islands, thirty-four copies (which may be transferred only to public agencies and institutions);” for “to each Representative and Resident Commissioner in Congress, sixty-eight copies”.

1974—[Pub. L. 93–314](/us/pl/93/314) struck out subscriptions from section catchline, and struck out last paragraph which authorized the Public Printer to furnish the daily Record to subscribers at a price determined by him to be based upon the cost of printing and distribution, with the price to be payable in advance. See [section 910 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s910).

1972—[Pub. L. 92–373](/us/pl/92/373) provided for the furnishing of one copy of the daily, one semimonthly copy of the Congressional Record to the United States Court of Appeals library and certain other libraries.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–276](/us/pl/91/276) substituted provision authorizing the Public Printer to furnish the daily Congressional Record to subscribers at a price based upon cost of printing and distribution for prior subscription price of $1.50 per month.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1998 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368) effective on first day of first month beginning more than 90 days after Nov. 11, 1998, see [section 513 of Pub. L. 105–368](/us/pl/105/368/s513), set out as a note under [section 7251 of Title 38](/us/usc/t38/s7251), Veterans’ Benefits.

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572) effective Oct. 29, 1992, see [section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572](/us/pl/102/572/s911), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–510](/us/pl/101/510) effective one year after Nov. 5, 1990, see [section 1541 of Pub. L. 101–510](/us/pl/101/510/s1541), formerly set out as an Effective Date note under [section 401 of Title 24](/us/usc/t24/s401), Hospitals and Asylums.

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164) effective Oct. 1, 1982, see [section 402 of Pub. L. 97–164](/us/pl/97/164/s402), set out as a note under [section 171 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s171), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417) effective Nov. 1, 1980, and applicable with respect to civil actions pending on or commenced on or after such date, see [section 701(a) of Pub. L. 96–417](/us/pl/96/417/s701/a), as amended, set out as a note under [section 251 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s251), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

[Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, § 407(b)](/us/pl/95/94/tIV/s407/b), Aug. 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 683](/us/stat/91/683), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1977.”

#### Abolition of Office of Postmaster

Office of Postmaster of House of Representatives abolished by section 2 of House Resolution No. 423, One Hundred Second Congress, Apr. 9, 1992.

#### Limitation on Bound and Biweekly Copies to Senators and Representatives

[Pub. L. 95–391, title I](/us/pl/95/391/tI), Sept. 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 783](/us/stat/92/783), provided that: “Hereafter, notwithstanding any other provision of law, appropriations for the automatic distribution to Senators and Representatives (including Delegates to Congress and the Resident Commissioner from Puerto Rico) of the bound and biweekly Congressional Records shall not be available with respect to any Senator or Representative unless such Senator or Representative specifically, in writing, requests that he or she receive copies of such Records.”

#### Limitation on Copies of Bound Permanent Edition for Vice President and Members of Senate and House of Representatives

[Pub. L. 93–145](/us/pl/93/145), Nov. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 546](/us/stat/87/546), provided that: “Hereafter, appropriations for authorized printing and binding for Congress shall not be available under the authority of the Act of October 22, 1968 ([44 U.S.C. 906](/us/usc/t44/s906)) for the printing, publication, and distribution of more than one copy of the bound permanent editions of the Congressional Record for the Vice President and each Member of the Senate and House of Representatives.”
