---
title: "§ 8523. Dissemination of information"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8523"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8523"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 591](/us/stat/80/591).)"
---
# § 8523. Dissemination of information

##### § 8523. Dissemination of information

(a) When designated by the Secretary of Labor, an agency of the United States shall make available to the appropriate State agency or to the Secretary, as the case may be, such information, including findings in the form and manner prescribed by regulations of the Secretary, as the Secretary considers practicable and necessary for the determination of the entitlement of an individual to compensation under this subchapter.

(b) Subject to correction of errors and omissions as prescribed by regulations of the Secretary, the following are final and conclusive for the purpose of sections 8502(d) and 8503(c) of this title:

(1) Findings by an agency of the United States made in accordance with subsection (a) of this section with respect to—

(A) whether or not an individual has met any condition specified by [section 8521(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8521/a/1);

(B) the periods of Federal service; and

(C) the pay grade of the individual at the time of his latest discharge or release from Federal service.

(2) The schedules of pay and allowances prescribed by the Secretary under [section 8521(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8521/a/2).

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 591](/us/stat/80/591).)*

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 42 U.S.C. 1371(d). | Aug. 28, 1958, Pub. L. 85–848, § 3 “Sec. 1511(d)”, 72 Stat. 1088. |
