---
title: "§ 8811. Biomass energy development plans"
identifier: "USC-T42-S8811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section8811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–294, title II, § 211](/us/pl/96/294/tII/s211), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 686](/us/stat/94/686).)"
---
# § 8811. Biomass energy development plans

##### § 8811. Biomass energy development plans

(a) Plan respecting maximized production and use by December 31, 1982; preparation, transmission, etc. Not later than 180 days after June 30, 1980, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy shall jointly prepare, and transmit to the President and the Congress, a plan for maximizing in accordance with this subchapter biomass energy production and use. Such plan shall be designed to achieve a total level of alcohol production and use within the United States of at least 60,000 barrels per day of alcohol by December 31, 1982.

(b) Comprehensive plan respecting maximized production and use from January 1, 1983, to December 31, 1990, preparation, transmission, etc.

(1) Not later than January 1, 1982, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy shall jointly prepare, and transmit to the President and the Congress, a comprehensive plan for maximizing in accordance with this subchapter biomass energy production and use, for the period beginning January 1, 1983, and ending December 31, 1990. Such plan shall be designed to achieve a level of alcohol production within the United States equal to at least 10 percent of the level of gasoline consumption within the United States as estimated by the Secretary of Energy for the calendar year 1990.

(2) The plan prepared under this subsection shall evaluate the feasibility of reaching the goals set forth in such subsection.

(c) Required guidelines The plans prepared under subsections (a) and (b) shall each include guidelines for use in awarding financial assistance under this subchapter which are designed to increase, during the period covered by the plan, the amount of motor fuel displaced by biomass energy.

*([Pub. L. 96–294, title II, § 211](/us/pl/96/294/tII/s211), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 686](/us/stat/94/686).)*
