---
title: "§ 2352. Funding to process permits"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2352"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2352"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–541, title II, § 214](/us/pl/106/541/tII/s214), Dec. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 2594](/us/stat/114/2594); [Pub. L. 108–137, title I, § 114](/us/pl/108/137/tI/s114), Dec. 1, 2003, [117 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/117/1836); [Pub. L. 109–99, § 1](/us/pl/109/99/s1), Nov. 11, 2005, [119 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/119/2169); [Pub. L. 109–209, § 1](/us/pl/109/209/s1), Mar. 24, 2006, [120 Stat. 318](/us/stat/120/318); [Pub. L. 109–434, § 1](/us/pl/109/434/s1), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3197](/us/stat/120/31"
---
# § 2352. Funding to process permits

##### § 2352. Funding to process permits

(a) Funding to process permits

(1) Definitions In this subsection:

(A) Natural gas company The term “natural gas company” has the meaning given the term in [section 16451 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16451), except that the term also includes a person engaged in the transportation of natural gas in intrastate commerce.

(B) Public-utility company The term “public-utility company” has the meaning given the term in [section 16451 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16451).

(C) Railroad carrier The term “railroad carrier” has the meaning given the term in [section 20102 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s20102).

(D) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” means—

(i) an Indian Tribe, as such term is defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304); and

(ii) any entity formed under the authority of one or more Indian Tribes, as so defined.

(2) Permit processing

(A) In general The Secretary, after public notice, may accept and expend funds contributed by a non-Federal public entity or a public-utility company, Indian Tribe, natural gas company, or railroad carrier to expedite the evaluation of a permit of that entity, company, or carrier related to a project or activity for a public purpose under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army, including an aquatic ecosystem restoration project.

(B) Mitigation bank instrument processing An activity carried out by the Secretary to expedite evaluation of a permit described in subparagraph (A) may include the evaluation of an instrument for a mitigation bank if—

(i) the non-Federal public entity, public-utility company, Indian Tribe, natural gas company, or railroad carrier applying for the permit described in that subparagraph is the sponsor of the mitigation bank; and

(ii) expediting evaluation of the instrument is necessary to expedite evaluation of the permit described in that subparagraph.

(3) Effect on other entities To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that expediting the evaluation of a permit through the use of funds accepted and expended under this section does not adversely affect the timeline for evaluation (in the Corps district in which the project or activity is located) of permits under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army of other entities that have not contributed funds under this section.

(b) Effect on permitting

(1) In general In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall ensure that the use of funds accepted under subsection (a) will not impact impartial decisionmaking with respect to permits, either substantively or procedurally.

(2) Impartial decisionmaking In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall ensure that the evaluation of permits carried out using funds accepted under this section shall—

(A) be reviewed by—

(i) the District Commander, or the Commander’s designee, of the Corps District in which the project or activity is located; or

(ii) the Commander of the Corps Division in which the District is located if the evaluation of the permit is initially conducted by the District Commander; and

(B) utilize the same procedures for decisions that would otherwise be required for the evaluation of permits for similar projects or activities not carried out using funds authorized under this section.

(c) Limitation on use of funds None of the funds accepted under this section shall be used to carry out a review of the evaluation of permits required under subsection (b)(2)(A).

(d) Public availability

(1) In general The Secretary shall ensure that all final permit decisions carried out using funds authorized under this section are made available to the public in a common format, including on the Internet, and in a manner that distinguishes final permit decisions under this section from other final actions of the Secretary.

(2) Decision document The Secretary shall—

(A) use a standard decision document for evaluating all permits using funds accepted under this section; and

(B) make the standard decision document, along with all final permit decisions, available to the public, including on the Internet.

(3) Agreements The Secretary shall make all active agreements to accept funds under this section available on a single public Internet site.

(e) Reporting

(1) In general The Secretary shall prepare an annual report on the implementation of this section, which, at a minimum, shall include for each district of the Corps of Engineers that accepts funds under this section—

(A) a comprehensive list of any funds accepted under this section during the previous fiscal year;

(B) a comprehensive list of the permits reviewed and approved using funds accepted under this section during the previous fiscal year, including a description of the size and type of resources impacted and the mitigation required for each permit; and

(C) a description of the training offered in the previous fiscal year for employees that is funded in whole or in part with funds accepted under this section.

(2) Submission Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall—

(A) submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives the annual report described in paragraph (1); and

(B) make each report received under subparagraph (A) available on a single publicly accessible Internet site.

*([Pub. L. 106–541, title II, § 214](/us/pl/106/541/tII/s214), Dec. 11, 2000, [114 Stat. 2594](/us/stat/114/2594); [Pub. L. 108–137, title I, § 114](/us/pl/108/137/tI/s114), Dec. 1, 2003, [117 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/117/1836); [Pub. L. 109–99, § 1](/us/pl/109/99/s1), Nov. 11, 2005, [119 Stat. 2169](/us/stat/119/2169); [Pub. L. 109–209, § 1](/us/pl/109/209/s1), Mar. 24, 2006, [120 Stat. 318](/us/stat/120/318); [Pub. L. 109–434, § 1](/us/pl/109/434/s1), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3197](/us/stat/120/3197); [Pub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2002](/us/pl/110/114/tII/s2002), Nov. 8, 2007, [121 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/121/1067); [Pub. L. 111–120, § 1](/us/pl/111/120/s1), Dec. 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 3478](/us/stat/123/3478); [Pub. L. 111–315, § 1](/us/pl/111/315/s1), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3450](/us/stat/124/3450); [Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1006](/us/pl/113/121/tI/s1006), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/128/1212); [Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1125](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1125), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1648](/us/stat/130/1648); [Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1145](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1145), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3785](/us/stat/132/3785); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8135](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8135), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3722](/us/stat/136/3722); [Pub. L. 118–272, div. A, title I, § 1133](/us/pl/118/272/dA/tI/s1133), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3024](/us/stat/138/3024).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(1)(D). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1133(1)](/us/pl/118/272/s1133/1), added subpar. (D).

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1133(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/272/s1133/2/A), inserted “Indian Tribe,” after “public-utility company,” in two places.

Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1133(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/272/s1133/2/B), inserted “, including an aquatic ecosystem restoration project” before period at end.

Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 1133(3)](/us/pl/118/272/s1133/3), struck out par. (4), which required the Comptroller General to carry out a followup study of the implementation of par. (2).

2022—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), inserted heading, and added subpar. (B).

2018—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 115–270, § 1145(1)](/us/pl/115/270/s1145/1), redesignated par. (4) as (3) and struck out former par. (3) which read as follows: “The authority provided under paragraph (2) to a public-utility company, natural gas company, or railroad carrier shall expire on the date that is 10 years after June 10, 2014.”

Subsec. (a)(4), (5). [Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270) redesignated par. (5) as (4) and substituted “December 31, 2022” for “4 years after June 10, 2014” and “carry out a followup study” for “carry out a study”.

2016—Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1125(1)](/us/pl/114/322/s1125/1), added subpar. (C).

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1125(2)](/us/pl/114/322/s1125/2), substituted “, natural gas company, or railroad carrier” for “or natural gas company” and “, company, or carrier” for “or company”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1125(3)](/us/pl/114/322/s1125/3), substituted “, natural gas company, or railroad carrier” for “or natural gas company” and “10 years” for “7 years”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 114–322, § 1125(4)](/us/pl/114/322/s1125/4), substituted “, natural gas companies, and railroad carriers, including an evaluation of the compliance with the requirements of this section and, with respect to a permit for those entities, the requirements of applicable Federal laws” for “and natural gas companies”.

2014—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 113–121, § 1006(1)(A)](/us/pl/113/121/s1006/1/A), (B), substituted “Funding to process permits” for “In general” in subsec. heading, added par. (1), redesignated text of subsec. (a) as par. (2), inserted heading, and inserted “or a public-utility company or natural gas company” after “non-Federal public entity” and “or company” after “that entity”.

Subsec. (a)(3) to (5). [Pub. L. 113–121, § 1006(1)(C)](/us/pl/113/121/s1006/1/C), added pars. (3) to (5).

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 113–121, § 1006(2)](/us/pl/113/121/s1006/2), added subsecs. (d) and (e) and struck out former subsecs. (d) and (e) which read as follows:

“(d) Public Availability.—The Secretary shall ensure that all final permit decisions carried out using funds authorized under this section are made available to the public, including on the Internet.

“(e) Duration of Authority.—The authority provided under this section shall be in effect from October 1, 2000, through December 31, 2016.”

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–315, § 1(1)](/us/pl/111/315/s1/1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary, after public notice, may accept and expend funds contributed by non-Federal public entities to expedite the evaluation of permits under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–315, § 1(3)](/us/pl/111/315/s1/3), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall ensure that the use of funds accepted under subsection (a) will not impact impartial decisionmaking with respect to permits, either substantively or procedurally.”

Subsecs. (c) to (e). [Pub. L. 111–315, § 1(2)](/us/pl/111/315/s1/2)–(4), added subsecs. (c) and (d), redesignated former subsec. (c) as (e), and, in subsec. (e), substituted “2016” for “2010”.

2009—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–120](/us/pl/111/120) substituted “2010” for “2009”.

2007—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 110–114](/us/pl/110/114) substituted “2009” for “2008”.

2006—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 109–434](/us/pl/109/434) substituted “December 31, 2008” for “December 31, 2006”.

[Pub. L. 109–209](/us/pl/109/209) substituted “December 31, 2006” for “March 31, 2006”.

2005—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–99, § 1(1)](/us/pl/109/99/s1/1), substituted “The” for “In fiscal years 2001 through 2005, the”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 109–99, § 1(2)](/us/pl/109/99/s1/2), added subsec. (c).

2003—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–137](/us/pl/108/137) substituted “2005” for “2003”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Processing Timelines

[Pub. L. 118–272, div. A, title I, § 1106](/us/pl/118/272/dA/tI/s1106), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3002](/us/stat/138/3002), provided that: “Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary [of the Army] shall ensure that the public website for the ‘permit finder’ of the Corps of Engineers accurately reflects the current status of permits for which funds have been contributed under section 214 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 ([33 U.S.C. 2352](/us/usc/t33/s2352)).”

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 106–541](/us/pl/106/541/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
