---
title: "§ 44948. National Deployment Office"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44948"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44948"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1988(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1988/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3622](/us/stat/132/3622).)"
---
# § 44948. National Deployment Office

##### § 44948. National Deployment Office

(a) Establishment.— There is established within the Transportation Security Administration a National Deployment Office, to be headed by an individual with supervisory experience. Such individual shall be designated by the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.

(b) Duties.— The individual designated as the head of the National Deployment Office shall be responsible for the following:

(1) Maintaining a National Deployment Force within the Transportation Security Administration, including transportation security officers, supervisory transportation security officers and lead transportation security officers, to provide the Administration with rapid and efficient response capabilities and augment the Department of Homeland Security’s homeland security operations to mitigate and reduce risk, including for the following:

(A) Airports temporarily requiring additional security personnel due to an emergency, seasonal demands, hiring shortfalls, severe weather conditions, passenger volume mitigation, equipment support, or other reasons.

(B) Special events requiring enhanced security including National Special Security Events, as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(C) Response in the aftermath of any manmade disaster, including any terrorist attack.

(D) Other such situations, as determined by the Administrator.

(2) Educating transportation security officers regarding how to participate in the Administration’s National Deployment Force.

(3) Recruiting officers to serve on the National Deployment Force, in accordance with a staffing model to be developed by the Administrator.

(4) Approving 1-year appointments for officers to serve on the National Deployment Force, with an option to extend upon officer request and with the approval of the appropriate Federal Security Director.

(5) Training officers to serve on the National Deployment Force.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1988(a)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1988/a), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3622](/us/stat/132/3622).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Career Development

[Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1988(d)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1988/d), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3623](/us/stat/132/3623), provided that: “The Administrator [of the Transportation Security Administration] may consider service in the National Deployment Force as a positive factor when evaluating applicants for promotion opportunities within the TSA [Transportation Security Administration].”
