---
title: "§ 4131. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 201, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)"
---
# § 4131. Definitions

##### § 4131. Definitions

(a) “Albania”, “Austria”, “Czechoslovakia”, “the Free Territory of Danzig”, “Estonia”, “Germany”, “Greece”, “Latvia”, “Lithuania”, “Poland”, and “Yugoslavia”, when used in their respective geographical senses, mean the territorial limits of each such country or free territory, as the case may be, in continental Europe as such limits existed on December 1, 1937.

(b) “Commission” means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States established pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1954 ([68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279)).

(c) “National of the United States” means (1) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States, (2) a natural person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States, and (3) a corporation, partnership, unincorporated body, or other entity, organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, or any possession of the United States and in which more than 50 per centum of the outstanding capital stock or other proprietary or similar interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by persons referred to in clauses (1) and (2) of this subsection. It does not include aliens.

(d) “Property” means real property and such items of tangible personalty as can be identified and evaluated.

*([July 3, 1948, ch. 826](/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826), title II, § 201, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103](/us/pl/87/846/tI/s103), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/76/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1954 ([68 Stat. 1279](/us/stat/68/1279)), referred to in subsec. (b), is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2017 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Separability

[Pub. L. 87–846, title III, § 301](/us/pl/87/846/tIII/s301), Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1117](/us/stat/76/1117), provided that: “If any provision of this Act [see Tables for classification], or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act, or the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected.”

#### Transfer of Functions

For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
