---
title: "§ 1475e. Use of English-teaching program fees"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1475e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1475e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title VIII, § 810, as added [Pub. L. 97–241, title III, § 304(e)](/us/pl/97/241/tIII/s304/e), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 293](/us/stat/96/293); amended [Pub. L. 100–204, title II, § 203](/us/pl/100/204/tII/s203), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/101/1373); [Pub. L. 101–246, title II, § 208](/us/pl/101/246/tII/s208), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 53](/us/stat/104/53); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXIV, § 2412, "
---
# § 1475e. Use of English-teaching program fees

##### § 1475e. Use of English-teaching program fees

(a) In general Notwithstanding [section 3302 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302) or any other law or limitation of authority, fees and receipts described in subsection (b) are authorized to be credited each fiscal year for authorized purposes to the appropriate appropriations of the United States Information Agency to such extent as may be provided in advance in appropriations acts.

(b) Fees and receipts described The fees and receipts described in this subsection are fees and payments received by or for the use of the United States Information Agency from or in connection with—

(1) English-teaching and library services,

(2) educational advising and counseling,

(3) Exchange Visitor Program Services,

(4) advertising and business ventures of the Voice of America and the International Broadcasting Bureau,

(5) cooperating international organizations, and 11 So in original. The word “and” probably should appear at end of par. (6).

(6) Agency-produced publications,^1

(7) an amount not to exceed $100,000 of the payments from motion picture and television programs produced or conducted by or on behalf of the Agency under the authority of this chapter or the Mutual Education and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 [[22 U.S.C. 2451](/us/usc/t22/s2451) et seq.].

*([Jan. 27, 1948, ch. 36](/us/act/1948-01-27/ch36), title VIII, § 810, as added [Pub. L. 97–241, title III, § 304(e)](/us/pl/97/241/tIII/s304/e), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 293](/us/stat/96/293); amended [Pub. L. 100–204, title II, § 203](/us/pl/100/204/tII/s203), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1373](/us/stat/101/1373); [Pub. L. 101–246, title II, § 208](/us/pl/101/246/tII/s208), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 53](/us/stat/104/53); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. B, title XXIV, § 2412, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–832](/us/stat/112/2681-832).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Mutual Education and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (b)(7), probably means the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, [Pub. L. 87–256](/us/pl/87/256), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 527](/us/stat/75/527), which is classified principally to chapter 33 (§ 2451 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2451 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2451) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

“(a) Notwithstanding [section 3302 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302) or any other law or limitation of authority, fees received by or for the use of the United States Information Agency from or in connection with English-teaching and library services, and Agency-produced publications, and not to exceed $100,000 of payments from motion picture and television programs, produced or conducted by or on behalf of the Agency under the authority of this chapter or the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 is authorized to be credited each fiscal year to the appropriate appropriation of the United States Information Agency to such extent as may be provided in advance in an appropriation Act.”

1990—[Pub. L. 101–246](/us/pl/101/246) amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “Notwithstanding the provisions of [section 3302(b) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s3302/b) or any other law or limitation of authority, all payments received by or for the use of the United States Information Agency from or in connection with English-teaching and library services conducted by or on behalf of the Agency under the authority of this chapter or the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 may be credited to the Agency’s applicable appropriation to such extent as may be provided in advance in an appropriation Act.”

1987—[Pub. L. 100–204](/us/pl/100/204) amended section generally, changing structure of section from one consisting of subsecs. (a) and (b) to one consisting of one paragraph.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

United States Information Agency (other than Broadcasting Board of Governors and International Broadcasting Bureau) abolished and functions transferred to Secretary of State, see sections 6531 and 6532 of this title.
