---
title: "§ 2712. Review of existing ordinances and contracts"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2712"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2712"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–497, § 13](/us/pl/100/497/s13), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2481](/us/stat/102/2481).)"
---
# § 2712. Review of existing ordinances and contracts

##### § 2712. Review of existing ordinances and contracts

(a) Notification to submit As soon as practicable after the organization of the Commission, the Chairman shall notify each Indian tribe or management contractor who, prior to October 17, 1988, adopted an ordinance or resolution authorizing class II gaming or class III gaming or entered into a management contract, that such ordinance, resolution, or contract, including all collateral agreements relating to the gaming activity, must be submitted for his review within 60 days of such notification. Any activity conducted under such ordinance, resolution, contract, or agreement shall be valid under this chapter, or any amendment made by this chapter, unless disapproved under this section.

(b) Approval or modification of ordinance or resolution

(1) By no later than the date that is 90 days after the date on which an ordinance or resolution authorizing class II gaming or class III gaming is submitted to the Chairman pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman shall review such ordinance or resolution to determine if it conforms to the requirements of [section 2710(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2710/b).

(2) If the Chairman determines that an ordinance or resolution submitted under subsection (a) conforms to the requirements of [section 2710(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2710/b), the Chairman shall approve it.

(3) If the Chairman determines that an ordinance or resolution submitted under subsection (a) does not conform to the requirements of [section 2710(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2710/b), the Chairman shall provide written notification of necessary modifications to the Indian tribe which shall have not more than 120 days to bring such ordinance or resolution into compliance.

(c) Approval or modification of management contract

(1) Within 180 days after the submission of a management contract, including all collateral agreements, pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman shall subject such contract to the requirements and process of [section 2711 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2711).

(2) If the Chairman determines that a management contract submitted under subsection (a), and the management contractor under such contract, meet the requirements of [section 2711 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2711), the Chairman shall approve the management contract.

(3) If the Chairman determines that a contract submitted under subsection (a), or the management contractor under a contract submitted under subsection (a), does not meet the requirements of [section 2711 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2711), the Chairman shall provide written notification to the parties to such contract of necessary modifications and the parties shall have not more than 120 days to come into compliance. If a management contract has been approved by the Secretary prior to October 17, 1988, the parties shall have not more than 180 days after notification of necessary modifications to come into compliance.

*([Pub. L. 100–497, § 13](/us/pl/100/497/s13), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2481](/us/stat/102/2481).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 100–497](/us/pl/100/497), Oct. 17, 1988, [102 Stat. 2467](/us/stat/102/2467), known as the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2701 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2701) and Tables.
