---
title: "§ 1001. Regulations relating to pay and allowances"
identifier: "USC-T37-S1001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title37-section1001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "37"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 489](/us/stat/76/489); [Pub. L. 89–718](/us/pl/89/718), §§ 49(a)(1), 69, Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/80/1121), 1123; [Pub. L. 90–623, § 3(1)](/us/pl/90/623/s3/1), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1314](/us/stat/82/1314); [Pub. L. 96–513, title V, § 516(22)](/us/pl/96/513/tV/s516/22), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2939](/us/stat/94/2939); [Pub. L. 102–25, title VII, § 702(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/25/tVII/s702/b/1), (c), Apr. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 11"
---
# § 1001. Regulations relating to pay and allowances

##### § 1001. Regulations relating to pay and allowances

(a) A Secretary of a military department may not prescribe a regulation under this title or any other law, relating to the pay and allowances of members of an armed force under that department, unless it has been approved under procedures prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.

(b) Regulations of the Secretary concerned relating to pay and allowances matters, similar to those covered by subsection (a), for members of the Coast Guard, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Public Health Service, shall, as far as practicable, conform to regulations approved under that subsection.

(c) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, may obtain from the Comptroller General an advisory opinion with respect to a proposed regulation especially affecting a department under that Secretary’s jurisdiction.

*([Pub. L. 87–649](/us/pl/87/649), Sept. 7, 1962, [76 Stat. 489](/us/stat/76/489); [Pub. L. 89–718](/us/pl/89/718), §§ 49(a)(1), 69, Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1121](/us/stat/80/1121), 1123; [Pub. L. 90–623, § 3(1)](/us/pl/90/623/s3/1), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1314](/us/stat/82/1314); [Pub. L. 96–513, title V, § 516(22)](/us/pl/96/513/tV/s516/22), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2939](/us/stat/94/2939); [Pub. L. 102–25, title VII, § 702(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/25/tVII/s702/b/1), (c), Apr. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 117](/us/stat/105/117); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(c)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/c), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/116/2314).)*

In subsection (a), the words “within the Department of Defense” are omitted as surplusage. The words “members of the armed forces” are substituted for the words “military personnel”.

In subsection (b), the words “conform to” are substituted for the words “agree with”.

In subsection (c), the words “or departments” are omitted, since, under [section 1 of title 1](/us/usc/t1/s1), words importing the singular include and apply to several persons, parties, or things.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1001(a)1001(b)1001(c) | 37:324 (1st sentence).37:324 (2d sentence).37:324 (less 1st and 2d sentences). | Oct. 12, 1949, ch. 681, § 534; added Sept. 2, 1957, Pub. L. 85–272, § 4, 71 Stat. 597. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “Secretary of Homeland Security” for “Secretary of Transportation”.

1991—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–25](/us/pl/102/25) struck out “of this section” after “subsection (a)”.

1980—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 96–513, § 516(22)(A)](/us/pl/96/513/s516/22/A), substituted “National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration” for “Environmental Science Services Administration”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 96–513, § 516(22)(B)](/us/pl/96/513/s516/22/B), substituted “Secretary of Health and Human Services” for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare”.

1968—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) substituted “Secretary of Transportation” for “Secretary of the Treasury”.

1966—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 89–718](/us/pl/89/718) substituted “Environmental Science Services Administration” for “Coast and Geodetic Survey”, and inserted “and allowances” between “pay” and “matters”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see [section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s1704/g), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) effective Dec. 12, 1980, see [section 701(b)(3) of Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513/s701/b/3), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623) intended to restate without substantive change the law in effect on Oct. 22, 1968, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 90–623](/us/pl/90/623/s6), set out as a note under [section 5334 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5334), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542).
