---
title: "§ 280f–1. Strengthening capacity and education for fetal alcohol spectrum disorders"
identifier: "USC-T42-S280f–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section280f–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399I, as added [Pub. L. 119–44, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/119/44/tI/s104/a), Dec. 1, 2025, [139 Stat. 673](/us/stat/139/673).)"
---
# § 280f–1. Strengthening capacity and education for fetal alcohol spectrum disorders

##### § 280f–1. Strengthening capacity and education for fetal alcohol spectrum disorders

(a) In general The Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements, as the Secretary determines appropriate, to public or nonprofit private entities with demonstrated expertise in the field of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (referred to in this section as “FASD”). Such awards shall be for the purposes of building local, Tribal, State, and nationwide capacities to prevent the occurrence of FASD by carrying out the programs described in subsection (b).

(b) Programs An entity receiving an award under subsection (a) may use such award for the following purposes:

(1) Developing and supporting public education and outreach activities to raise public awareness of the risks associated with alcohol consumption during pregnancy.

(2) Acting as a clearinghouse for evidence-based resources on FASD prevention, identification, and culturally and linguistically appropriate best practices to help inform systems of care for individuals with FASD across their lifespan.

(3) Increasing awareness and understanding of efficacious, evidence-based screening tools and culturally and linguistically appropriate evidence-based intervention services and best practices, which may include improving the capacity for State, Tribal, and local affiliates.

(4) Providing technical assistance to recipients of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts under [section 280f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s280f), as appropriate.

(c) Application To be eligible for a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this section, an entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(d) Subcontracting A public or private nonprofit entity may carry out the following activities required under this section through contracts or cooperative agreements with other public and private nonprofit entities with demonstrated expertise in FASD:

(1) Resource development and dissemination.

(2) Intervention services.

(3) Training and technical assistance.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399I, as added [Pub. L. 119–44, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/119/44/tI/s104/a), Dec. 1, 2025, [139 Stat. 673](/us/stat/139/673).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 280f–1, [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399I](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373/tIII/s399I), formerly § 399H, as added [Pub. L. 105–392, title IV, § 419(d)](/us/pl/105/392/tIV/s419/d), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3594](/us/stat/112/3594); renumbered § 399I, [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title V, § 502(4)(A)](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tV/s502/4/A), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1115](/us/stat/114/1115), provided eligibility criteria for receiving a grant or entering into a cooperative agreement or contract under this part, prior to the general amendment of this part by [Pub. L. 119–44](/us/pl/119/44).
