---
title: "§ 318. Transmitting apparatus; operator’s license"
identifier: "USC-T47-S318"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section318"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 318, [48 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/48/1089); [Mar. 29, 1937, ch. 58](/us/act/1937-03-29/ch58), [50 Stat. 56](/us/stat/50/56); [Pub. L. 86–609, § 1](/us/pl/86/609/s1), July 7, 1960, [74 Stat. 363](/us/stat/74/363); [Pub. L. 94–335](/us/pl/94/335), July 1, 1976, [90 Stat. 794](/us/stat/90/794); [Pub. L. 102–538, title II, § 205](/us/pl/102/538/tII/s205), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3543](/us/stat/106/3543); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 3"
---
# § 318. Transmitting apparatus; operator’s license

##### § 318. Transmitting apparatus; operator’s license

The actual operation of all transmitting apparatus in any radio station for which a station license is required by this chapter shall be carried on only by a person holding an operator’s license issued hereunder, and no person shall operate any such apparatus in such station except under and in accordance with an operator’s license issued to him by the Commission: *Provided, however*, That the Commission if it shall find that the public interest, convenience, or necessity will be served thereby may waive or modify the foregoing provisions of this section for the operation of any station except (1) stations for which licensed operators are required by international agreement, (2) stations for which licensed operators are required for safety purposes, and (3) stations operated as common carriers on frequencies below thirty thousand kilocycles: *Provided further*, That the Commission shall have power to make special regulations governing the granting of licenses for the use of automatic radio devices and for the operation of such devices.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 318, [48 Stat. 1089](/us/stat/48/1089); [Mar. 29, 1937, ch. 58](/us/act/1937-03-29/ch58), [50 Stat. 56](/us/stat/50/56); [Pub. L. 86–609, § 1](/us/pl/86/609/s1), July 7, 1960, [74 Stat. 363](/us/stat/74/363); [Pub. L. 94–335](/us/pl/94/335), July 1, 1976, [90 Stat. 794](/us/stat/90/794); [Pub. L. 102–538, title II, § 205](/us/pl/102/538/tII/s205), Oct. 27, 1992, [106 Stat. 3543](/us/stat/106/3543); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 303(d)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s303/d), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4296](/us/stat/108/4296).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414) made technical amendments to directory language of [Pub. L. 102–538, § 205(1)](/us/pl/102/538/s205/1). See 1992 Amendment note below.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–538, § 205(2)](/us/pl/102/538/s205/2), redesignated cl. (4) as (3).

[Pub. L. 102–538, § 205(1)](/us/pl/102/538/s205/1), as amended by [Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414), struck out cl. (3) which read as follows: “stations engaged in broadcasting (other than those engaged primarily in the function of rebroadcasting the signals of broadcast stations),”.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–335](/us/pl/94/335) substituted “engaged primarily in the function of rebroadcasting the signals of broadcast stations” for “engaged solely in the function of rebroadcasting the signals of television broadcast stations” in parenthetical provisions of cl. (3).

1960—[Pub. L. 86–609](/us/pl/86/609) inserted “(other than those engaged solely in the function of rebroadcasting the signals of television broadcast stations)” after “engaged in broadcasting”.

1937—Act Mar. 29, 1937, inserted provisos.
