---
title: "§ 456. Operation of premises, facilities and equipment"
identifier: "USC-T21-S456"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section456"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–172, § 7](/us/pl/85/172/s7), Aug. 28, 1957, [71 Stat. 444](/us/stat/71/444); [Pub. L. 90–492, § 7](/us/pl/90/492/s7), Aug. 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 799](/us/stat/82/799).)"
---
# § 456. Operation of premises, facilities and equipment

##### § 456. Operation of premises, facilities and equipment

(a) Sanitary practices Each official establishment slaughtering poultry or processing poultry products for commerce or otherwise subject to inspection under this chapter shall have such premises, facilities, and equipment, and be operated in accordance with such sanitary practices, as are required by regulations promulgated by the Secretary for the purpose of preventing the entry into or flow or movement in commerce or burdensome effect upon commerce, of poultry products which are adulterated.

(b) Refusal of inspection The Secretary shall refuse to render inspection to any establishment whose premises, facilities, or equipment, or the operation thereof, fail to meet the requirements of this section.

*([Pub. L. 85–172, § 7](/us/pl/85/172/s7), Aug. 28, 1957, [71 Stat. 444](/us/stat/71/444); [Pub. L. 90–492, § 7](/us/pl/90/492/s7), Aug. 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 799](/us/stat/82/799).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1968—Par. (a). [Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492) substituted “otherwise subject to inspection under this chapter” for “in or for marketing in a designated major consuming area”, “burdensome effect upon commerce” for “in a designated major consuming area”, and “which are adulterated” for “which are unwholesome or adulterated”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492) effective Aug. 18, 1968, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492/s20), set out as a note under [section 451 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s451).
