---
title: "§ 306. Prohibited discrimination"
identifier: "USC-T49-S306"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section306"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–449, § 1(b)](/us/pl/97/449/s1/b), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/96/2421); [Pub. L. 98–216, § 2(3)](/us/pl/98/216/s2/3), Feb. 14, 1984, [98 Stat. 5](/us/stat/98/5); [Pub. L. 103–272, § 5(m)(7)](/us/pl/103/272/s5/m/7), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/108/1376); [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21301(j)(4)(B)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21301/j/4/B), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 693](/us/stat/135/693).)"
---
# § 306. Prohibited discrimination

##### § 306. Prohibited discrimination

(a) In this section, “financial assistance” includes obligation guarantees.

(b) A person in the United States may not be excluded from participating in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under, a project, program, or activity because of race, color, national origin, or sex when any part of the project, program, or activity is financed through financial assistance under section 332 or 333 or chapter 221, 224, or 249 of this title, or section 211 or 216 of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 ([45 U.S.C. 721](/us/usc/t45/s721), 726).

(c) When the Secretary of Transportation decides that a person receiving financial assistance under a law referred to in subsection (b) of this section has not complied with that subsection, a Federal civil rights law, or an order or regulation issued under a Federal civil rights law, the Secretary shall notify the person of the decision and require the person to take necessary action to ensure compliance with that subsection.

(d) If a person does not comply with subsection (b) of this section within a reasonable time after receiving a notice under subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary shall take at least one of the following actions:

(1) direct that no more Federal financial assistance be provided the person.

(2) refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation that a civil action be brought against the person.

(3) carry out the duties and powers provided by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.).

(4) take other action provided by law.

(e) When a matter is referred to the Attorney General under subsection (d)(2) of this section, or when the Attorney General has reason to believe that a person is engaged in a pattern or practice violating this section, the Attorney General may begin a civil action in a district court of the United States for appropriate relief.

*([Pub. L. 97–449, § 1(b)](/us/pl/97/449/s1/b), Jan. 12, 1983, [96 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/96/2421); [Pub. L. 98–216, § 2(3)](/us/pl/98/216/s2/3), Feb. 14, 1984, [98 Stat. 5](/us/stat/98/5); [Pub. L. 103–272, § 5(m)(7)](/us/pl/103/272/s5/m/7), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1376](/us/stat/108/1376); [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title I, § 21301(j)(4)(B)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tI/s21301/j/4/B), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 693](/us/stat/135/693).)*

In subsection (b), the enumerated laws are substituted for “through financial assistance under this Act”, meaning the Rail Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 ([Pub. L. 94–210](/us/pl/94/210), [90 Stat. 31](/us/stat/90/31)) and laws amended by that Act. The laws cited in the subsection are substituted for “through financial assistance under this Act” for clarity. The enumerated laws include provisions of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 that amend other laws as well as provisions that are not amendments to other laws. A reference to the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964 ([Pub. L. 88–365](/us/pl/88/365), [78 Stat. 302](/us/stat/78/302)) is omitted because this section related to that Act is superseded by 49:1615.

In subsection (c), the word “decides” is substituted for “determines” for consistency. The word “ensure” is substituted for “assure” as being more precise.

In subsection (d), the words “at least one of the following actions” are substituted for “and/or” for clarity and consistency.

In subsection (e), the text of 45:803(d) is omitted as unnecessary because section 322 of the revised title gives the Secretary of Transportation general authority to prescribe regulations and other provisions of the revised title give the Secretary general authority to carry out his duties and powers. The text of 45:803(e) is omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pub. L. 97–449 |  |  |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 306(a) | 45:803(f). | Feb. 5, 1976, Pub. L. 94–210, § 905, 90 Stat. 148. |
| 306(b) | 45:803(a). |  |
| 306(c), (d) | 45:803(b). |  |
| 306(e) | 45:803(c)–(e). |  |

#### [Pub. L. 98–216](/us/pl/98/216)

This is necessary to correct a cross-reference in section 306(b) and to reflect the transfer of the non-positive law provisions of title 49 to title 49 appendix.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of chapter 21 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58) substituted “chapter 221, 224, or 249 of this title, or” for “chapter 221 or 249 of this title,” and struck out “, or title V of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 ([45 U.S.C. 821](/us/usc/t45/s821) et seq.)” before period at end.

1994—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 103–272](/us/pl/103/272) substituted “section 332 or 333 or chapter 221 or 249 of this title, section 211 or 216 of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 ([45 U.S.C. 721](/us/usc/t45/s721), 726), or title V of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 ([45 U.S.C. 821](/us/usc/t45/s821) et seq.)” for “section 332 or 333 of this title, section 211 or 216 of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 ([45 U.S.C. 721](/us/usc/t45/s721), 726), title V or VII of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 ([45 U.S.C. 821](/us/usc/t45/s821) et seq., 851 et seq.), or section 4(i) or 5 of the Department of Transportation Act ([49 U.S.C. 1653(i)](/us/usc/t49/s1653/i), 1654)”.

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–216](/us/pl/98/216) substituted “section 332 or 333 of this title” for “[section 332 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s332)” and “49 App. U.S.C.” for “49 U.S.C.”.
