---
title: "§ 719. Department of Commerce: assignment or detail of members of the armed forces to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration"
identifier: "USC-T10-S719"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section719"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 89–683, § 1(1)](/us/pl/89/683/s1/1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 960](/us/stat/80/960); amended [Pub. L. 96–513, title I, § 511(23)(A)](/us/pl/96/513/tI/s511/23/A), (B), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2921](/us/stat/94/2921).)"
---
# § 719. Department of Commerce: assignment or detail of members of the armed forces to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

##### § 719. Department of Commerce: assignment or detail of members of the armed forces to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

Upon the request of the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of a military department may assign or detail members of the armed forces under his jurisdiction for duty in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, with reimbursement from the Department of Commerce. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a member so assigned or detailed may exercise the functions, and assume the title, of any position in that Administration without affecting his status as a member of an armed force, but he is not entitled to the compensation fixed for that position.

*(Added [Pub. L. 89–683, § 1(1)](/us/pl/89/683/s1/1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 960](/us/stat/80/960); amended [Pub. L. 96–513, title I, § 511(23)(A)](/us/pl/96/513/tI/s511/23/A), (B), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2921](/us/stat/94/2921).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—[Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) substituted “of members of the armed forces to National Oceanic and Atmospheric” for “to Environmental Science Services” in section catchline, and substituted “National Oceanic and Atmospheric” for “Environmental Science Services” in text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1980 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513) effective Dec. 12, 1980, see [section 701(b)(3) of Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513/s701/b/3), set out as a note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s101).
