---
title: "§ 9576. Authority to publish"
identifier: "USC-T20-S9576"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section9576"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 186](/us/pl/107/279/tI/s186), Nov. 5, 2002, [116 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/116/1973).)"
---
# § 9576. Authority to publish

##### § 9576. Authority to publish

(a) Publication The Director may prepare and publish (including through oral presentation) such research, statistics (consistent with part C), and evaluation information and reports from any office, board, committee, and center of the Institute, as needed to carry out the priorities and mission of the Institute without the approval of the Secretary or any other office of the Department.

(b) Advance copies The Director shall provide the Secretary and other relevant offices with an advance copy of any information to be published under this section before publication.

(c) Peer review All research, statistics, and evaluation reports conducted by, or supported through, the Institute shall be subjected to rigorous peer review before being published or otherwise made available to the public.

(d) Items not covered Nothing in subsections 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (a), (b), or (c) shall be construed to apply to—

(1) information on current or proposed budgets, appropriations, or legislation;

(2) information prohibited from disclosure by law or the Constitution, classified national security information, or information described in [section 552(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b); and

(3) review by officers of the United States in order to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information described in paragraph (1) or (2).

*([Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 186](/us/pl/107/279/tI/s186), Nov. 5, 2002, [116 Stat. 1973](/us/stat/116/1973).)*
