---
title: "§ 2330b. Fish hatcheries"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2330b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2330b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1168](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1168), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1671](/us/stat/130/1671).)"
---
# § 2330b. Fish hatcheries

##### § 2330b. Fish hatcheries

(a) In general Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may operate a fish hatchery for the purpose of restoring a population of fish species located in the region surrounding the fish hatchery that is listed as a threatened species or an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 ([16 U.S.C. 1531](/us/usc/t16/s1531) et seq.) or a similar State law.

(b) Costs A non-Federal entity, another Federal agency, or a group of non-Federal entities or other Federal agencies shall be responsible for 100 percent of the additional costs associated with managing a fish hatchery for the purpose described in subsection (a) that are not authorized as of December 16, 2016, for the fish hatchery.

*([Pub. L. 114–322, title I, § 1168](/us/pl/114/322/tI/s1168), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1671](/us/stat/130/1671).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Endangered Species Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 93–205](/us/pl/93/205), Dec. 28, 1973, [87 Stat. 884](/us/stat/87/884), which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1531 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1531 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1531) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, and also as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, also known as the WIIN Act, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 1002 of Pub. L. 114–322](/us/pl/114/322/s1002), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
