---
title: "§ 3702. Statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–200, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/200/tI/s103), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 253](/us/stat/114/253); [Pub. L. 114–27, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tI/s106/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 368](/us/stat/129/368).)"
---
# § 3702. Statement of policy

##### § 3702. Statement of policy

(1) encouraging increased trade and investment between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa;

(2) reducing tariff and nontariff barriers and other obstacles to sub-Saharan African and United States trade;

(3) expanding United States assistance to sub-Saharan Africa’s regional integration efforts;

(4) negotiating reciprocal and mutually beneficial trade agreements, including the possibility of establishing free trade areas that serve the interests of both the United States and the countries of sub-Saharan Africa;

(5) focusing on countries committed to the rule of law, economic reform, and the eradication of poverty;

(6) strengthening and expanding the private sector in sub-Saharan Africa, especially enterprises owned by women and small businesses;

(7) facilitating the development of civil societies and political freedom in sub-Saharan Africa;

(8) establishing a United States-Sub-Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum;

(9) the accession of the countries in sub-Saharan Africa to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; and

(10) promoting the role of women in social, political, and economic development in sub-Saharan Africa.

*([Pub. L. 106–200, title I, § 103](/us/pl/106/200/tI/s103), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 253](/us/stat/114/253); [Pub. L. 114–27, title I, § 106(a)](/us/pl/114/27/tI/s106/a), June 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 368](/us/stat/129/368).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—Par. (10). [Pub. L. 114–27](/us/pl/114/27) added par. (10).
