---
title: "§ 5133. Revolving fund; loans; regulations"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5133"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5133"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([May 7, 1948, ch. 266](/us/act/1948-05-07/ch266), [62 Stat. 211](/us/stat/62/211).)"
---
# § 5133. Revolving fund; loans; regulations

##### § 5133. Revolving fund; loans; regulations

The Secretary of the Interior, or his designated representative, is authorized, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, to make loans from the revolving fund established pursuant to the Acts of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], and June 26, 1936 ([49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967)), to tribes, bands, groups, and individual Indians, not otherwise eligible for loans under said Acts: *Provided*, That no portion of these funds shall be loaned to Indians of less than one-quarter Indian blood.

*([May 7, 1948, ch. 266](/us/act/1948-05-07/ch266), [62 Stat. 211](/us/stat/62/211).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, is [act June 18, 1934, ch. 576](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576), [48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. Provisions of the Act establishing the revolving fund are set out in [section 5113 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5113). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

Act of June 26, 1936, referred to in text, is [act June 26, 1936, ch. 831](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967), popularly known as the Oklahoma Welfare Act, which was classified generally to subchapter VIII (§ 501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as chapter 45A (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5201) and Tables. Provisions of the Act relating to the revolving fund appear in [section 5206 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5206).

Funds in the revolving fund authorized by these Acts, and certain other sums, to be administered after Apr. 12, 1974, as a single Indian Revolving Loan Fund, see [section 1461 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1461).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 482 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s482) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
