---
title: "§ 1583a. Development of technology to detect illicit narcotics"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1583a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1583a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8006](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8006), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4080](/us/stat/132/4080).)"
---
# § 1583a. Development of technology to detect illicit narcotics

##### § 1583a. Development of technology to detect illicit narcotics

(a) In general The Postmaster General and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, in coordination with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall collaborate to identify and develop technology for the detection of illicit fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances entering the United States by mail.

(b) Outreach to private sector The Postmaster General and the Commissioner shall conduct outreach to private sector entities to gather information regarding the current state of technology to identify areas for innovation relating to the detection of illicit fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances entering the United States.

*([Pub. L. 115–271, title VIII, § 8006](/us/pl/115/271/tVIII/s8006), Oct. 24, 2018, [132 Stat. 4080](/us/stat/132/4080).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act of 2018, also known as the STOP Act of 2018, and also as part of the Substance Use–Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act, also known as the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, and not as part of the Tariff Act of 1930 which comprises this chapter.
