---
title: "§ 3307. Frequency of inspection"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 514](/us/stat/97/514); [Pub. L. 104–324, title VI, § 605(a)](/us/pl/104/324/tVI/s605/a), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3931](/us/stat/110/3931).)"
---
# § 3307. Frequency of inspection

##### § 3307. Frequency of inspection

(1) each passenger vessel, nautical school vessel, and small passenger vessel allowed to carry more than 12 passengers on a foreign voyage shall be inspected at least once a year; and

(2) any other vessel shall be inspected at least once every 5 years.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 514](/us/stat/97/514); [Pub. L. 104–324, title VI, § 605(a)](/us/pl/104/324/tVI/s605/a), Oct. 19, 1996, [110 Stat. 3931](/us/stat/110/3931).)*

Section 3307 requires each vessel subject to inspection to undergo an initial inspection prior to being placed in service. This is normally started during the construction or reconstruction phase and is a continuing process until final certification for operation in a particular trade. Subsequent periodic inspections are also required for various types of vessels. It is to be noted that a freight vessel of less than 100 gross tons shall be inspected at 3 year intervals while the larger freight vessel has a 2 year inspection period. This is being done to retain the existing procedure of issuing 3 year certificates of inspection to smaller vessels, however, this does not prevent periodic inspections or examinations at intervening periods.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3307(1) | 46:391(c)46:1295f(c) |
| 3307(2) | 46:390a(a)46:404–1(6)(i) |
| 3307(3) | 46:391(b)46:392(b)46:404–1(6)(ii) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 104–324, § 605(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/324/s605/a/1), substituted “, nautical school vessel, and small passenger vessel allowed to carry more than 12 passengers on a foreign voyage” for “and nautical school vessel” and inserted “and” at end.

Pars. (2), (3). [Pub. L. 104–324, § 605(a)(2)](/us/pl/104/324/s605/a/2), (3), redesignated par. (3) as (2), substituted “5 years” for “2 years”, and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “each small passenger vessel, freight vessel or offshore supply vessel of less than 100 gross tons, and sailing school vessel shall be inspected at least once every 3 years; and”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 15, 1984, see [section 2(g)(1) of Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89/s2/g/1), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3101).
