---
title: "§ 742b–1. Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs"
identifier: "USC-T16-S742b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section742b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–408, title I, § 132](/us/pl/106/408/tI/s132), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1775](/us/stat/114/1775).)"
---
# § 742b–1. Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs

##### § 742b–1. Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs

(a) Establishment There is established in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior the position of Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs.

(b) Superior The Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs shall report directly to the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.

(c) Responsibilities The Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs shall be responsible for the administration, management, and oversight of the Federal Assistance Program for State Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act ([16 U.S.C. 669](/us/usc/t16/s669) et seq.) and the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act ([16 U.S.C. 777](/us/usc/t16/s777) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 106–408, title I, § 132](/us/pl/106/408/tI/s132), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1775](/us/stat/114/1775).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act Sept. 2, 1937, ch. 899](/us/act/1937-09-02/ch899), [50 Stat. 917](/us/stat/50/917), also known as the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act, which is classified generally to chapter 5B (§ 669 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 669 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s669) and Tables.

The Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act Aug. 9, 1950, ch. 658](/us/act/1950-08-09/ch658), [64 Stat. 430](/us/stat/64/430), also known as the Federal Aid in Fish Restoration Act and the Fish Restoration and Management Projects Act, which is classified generally to chapter 10B (§ 777 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 777 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s777) and Tables.
