---
title: "§ 5108. Special exemptions"
identifier: "USC-T46-S5108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section5108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(2)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/2), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/100/1916).)"
---
# § 5108. Special exemptions

##### § 5108. Special exemptions

(a) The Secretary may exempt a vessel from any part of this chapter when—

(1) the vessel is entitled to an exemption under an international agreement to which the United States Government is a party; or

(2) under regulations (including regulations on special operations conditions) prescribed by the Secretary, the Secretary finds that good cause exists for granting an exemption.

(b) When the Secretary grants an exemption under this section, the Secretary may issue a certificate of exemption stating the extent of the exemption.

(c) A certificate of exemption issued under subsection (b) of this section shall be maintained as required by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(2)](/us/pl/99/509/tV/s5101/2), Oct. 21, 1986, [100 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/100/1916).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

*Revised section 5108*

Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 86e, 88a.

Section 5108(a) authorizes the Secretary to exempt a vessel from load line requirements if the vessel is entitled to an exemption under an international agreement to which the United States is a party. It also provides the Secretary with the new authority to exempt a vessel from load line requirements if the Secretary finds that there is good reason for granting the exemption. A specific exemption from load line requirements was authorized in [Public Law 98–557](/us/pl/98/557) for barges operating close to shore between Calumet Harbor, Illinois and Burns Harbor, Indiana, because the geographic area and type of operation in this case did not warrant a requirement for load lines. Additional exemptions currently must be made by an Act of Congress. Section 5108(a) authorizes the Secretary to make such exemptions through regulation, and the Committee expects the Secretary to continue the exemption under this provision for vessels operating close to shore between Calumet Harbor, Illinois and Burns Harbor, Indiana.

Section 5108(b) authorizes the Secretary to issue a certificate of exemption when an exemption is granted.

Section 5108(c) requires that the certificate of exemption be maintained as required by the Secretary in a similar manner as under section 5106(b).
