---
title: "§ 2253. Annual financial review"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2253"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2253"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2007(b)](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2007/b), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/128/1268).)"
---
# § 2253. Annual financial review

##### § 2253. Annual financial review

For any inland waterways project that the Secretary carries out that has an estimated total cost of $500,000,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional committees referred to in subsection (a) 11 See References in Text note below. an annual financial plan for the project. The plan shall be based on detailed annual estimates of the cost to complete the remaining elements of the project and on reasonable assumptions, as determined by the Secretary, of any future increases of the cost to complete the project.

*([Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2007(b)](/us/pl/113/121/tII/s2007/b), June 10, 2014, [128 Stat. 1268](/us/stat/128/1268).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The congressional committees referred to in subsection (a), referred to in text, mean the congressional committees referred to in subsec. (a) of [section 2007 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2007), which are the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121](/us/pl/113/121/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
