---
title: "§ 2736a. Recruitment and retention"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2736a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2736a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5403](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5403), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2372](/us/stat/135/2372).)"
---
# § 2736a. Recruitment and retention

##### § 2736a. Recruitment and retention

(a) In general The Secretary shall—

(1) continue to seek a diverse and talented pool of applicants; and

(2) instruct the Director General of the Foreign Service and the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources of the Department to have a recruitment plan of action for the recruitment of people belonging to traditionally under-represented groups, which should include outreach at appropriate colleges, universities, affinity groups, and professional associations.

(b) Scope The diversity recruitment initiatives described in subsection (a) shall include—

(1) recruiting at women’s colleges, historically Black colleges and universities, minority-serving institutions, and other institutions serving a significant percentage of minority students;

(2) placing job advertisements in newspapers, magazines, and job sites oriented toward diverse groups;

(3) sponsoring and recruiting at job fairs in urban and rural communities and land-grant colleges or universities;

(4) providing opportunities through highly respected, international leadership programs, that focus on diversity recruitment and retention;

(5) expanding the use of paid internships; and

(6) cultivating partnerships with organizations dedicated to the advancement of the profession of international affairs and national security to advance shared diversity goals.

(c) Expand training on anti-harassment and anti-discrimination

(1) In general The Secretary shall, through the Foreign Service Institute and other educational and training opportunities—

(A) ensure the provision to all individuals in the workforce of training on anti-harassment and anti-discrimination information and policies, including in existing Foreign Service Institute courses or modules prioritized in the Department’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan for 2016–2020 to promote diversity in Bureau awards or mitigate unconscious bias;

(B) expand the provision of training on workplace rights and responsibilities to focus on anti-harassment and anti-discrimination information and policies, including policies relating to sexual assault prevention and response; and

(C) make such expanded training mandatory for—

(i) individuals in senior and supervisory positions;

(ii) individuals having responsibilities related to recruitment, retention, or promotion of employees; and

(iii) any other individual determined by the Department who needs such training based on analysis by the Department or OPM analysis.

(2) Best practices The Department shall give special attention to ensuring the continuous incorporation of research-based best practices in training provided under this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIV, § 5403](/us/pl/117/81/dE/tLIV/s5403), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 2372](/us/stat/135/2372).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Expansion of Diplomats in Residence Programs

[Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXII, § 6213](/us/pl/118/31/dF/tLXII/s6213), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 978](/us/stat/137/978), provided that: “(a) In General.—Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this division [Dec. 22, 2023]—“(1) the Secretary [of State] is authorized to increase the number of diplomats in the Diplomats in Residence Program from 17 to at least 20; and “(2) the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development is authorized to increase the number of development diplomats in the Diplomats in Residence Program from 1 to at least 3. “(b) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this division, and every year for three years thereafter, the Secretary shall report to the appropriate congressional committees [Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives] whether additional Diplomats in Residence have been established, and, if so, what regions or colleges or universities such diplomats are assigned to, with an explanation as to why those regions or schools were chosen as most in need of additional Department [of State] recruiting personnel.”

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary” and “Department” as used in this section, see [section 5002 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5002), set out as a note under [section 263c of this title](/us/usc/t22/s263c).

For definitions of “diversity” and “workforce” as used in this section, see [section 5401 of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s5401), set out as a note under [section 2736 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2736).
