---
title: "§ 765. Access to INTELSAT"
identifier: "USC-T47-S765"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section765"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–624, title VI, § 641](/us/pl/87/624/tVI/s641), as added [Pub. L. 106–180, § 3](/us/pl/106/180/s3), Mar. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 55](/us/stat/114/55).)"
---
# § 765. Access to INTELSAT

##### § 765. Access to INTELSAT

(a) Access permitted Beginning on March 17, 2000, users or providers of telecommunications services shall be permitted to obtain direct access to INTELSAT telecommunications services and space segment capacity through purchases of such capacity or services from INTELSAT. Such direct access shall be at the level commonly referred to by INTELSAT, on March 17, 2000, as “Level III”.

(b) Rulemaking Within 180 days after March 17, 2000, the Commission shall complete a rulemaking, with notice and opportunity for submission of comment by interested persons, to determine if users or providers of telecommunications services have sufficient opportunity to access INTELSAT space segment capacity directly from INTELSAT to meet their service or capacity requirements. If the Commission determines that such opportunity to access does not exist, the Commission shall take appropriate action to facilitate such direct access pursuant to its authority under this chapter and the Communications Act of 1934 [[47 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t47/s151) et seq.]. The Commission shall take such steps as may be necessary to prevent the circumvention of the intent of this section.

(c) Contract preservation Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the abrogation or modification of any contract.

*([Pub. L. 87–624, title VI, § 641](/us/pl/87/624/tVI/s641), as added [Pub. L. 106–180, § 3](/us/pl/106/180/s3), Mar. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 55](/us/stat/114/55).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), which is classified principally to chapter 5 (§ 151 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.
