---
title: "§ 15824. State Technologies Advancement Collaborative"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15824"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15824"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 127](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s127), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 619](/us/stat/119/619).)"
---
# § 15824. State Technologies Advancement Collaborative

##### § 15824. State Technologies Advancement Collaborative

(a) In general The Secretary, in cooperation with the States, shall establish a cooperative program for research, development, demonstration, and deployment of technologies in which there is a common Federal and State energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil energy interest, to be known as the “State Technologies Advancement Collaborative” (referred to in this section as the “Collaborative”).

(b) Duties The Collaborative shall—

(1) leverage Federal and State funding through cost-shared activity;

(2) reduce redundancies in Federal and State funding; and

(3) create multistate projects to be awarded through a competitive process.

(c) Administration The Collaborative shall be administered through an agreement between the Department and appropriate State-based organizations.

(d) Funding sources Funding for the Collaborative may be provided from—

(1) amounts specifically appropriated for the Collaborative; or

(2) amounts that may be allocated from other appropriations without changing the purpose for which the amounts are appropriated.

(e) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to carry out this section such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title I, § 127](/us/pl/109/58/tI/s127), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 619](/us/stat/119/619).)*
