---
title: "§ 247b–10. Compilation of data on asthma"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247b–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247b–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 317I, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title V, § 531](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tV/s531), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1117](/us/stat/114/1117).)"
---
# § 247b–10. Compilation of data on asthma

##### § 247b–10. Compilation of data on asthma

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall—

(1) conduct local asthma surveillance activities to collect data on the prevalence and severity of asthma and the quality of asthma management;

(2) compile and annually publish data on the prevalence of children suffering from asthma in each State; and

(3) to the extent practicable, compile and publish data on the childhood mortality rate associated with asthma nationally.

(b) Surveillance activities The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, acting through the representative of the Director on the National Asthma Education Prevention Program Coordinating Committee, shall, in carrying out subsection (a), provide an update on surveillance activities at each Committee meeting.

(c) Collaborative efforts The activities described in subsection (a)(1) may be conducted in collaboration with eligible entities awarded a grant under [section 280g of this title](/us/usc/t42/s280g).

(d) Authorization of appropriations For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 317I, as added [Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title V, § 531](/us/pl/106/310/dA/tV/s531), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1117](/us/stat/114/1117).)*
