---
title: "§ 30308. Cost effectiveness calculations"
identifier: "USC-T51-S30308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section30308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/124/3366).)"
---
# § 30308. Cost effectiveness calculations

##### § 30308. Cost effectiveness calculations

(a) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Commercial provider.— The term “commercial provider” means any person providing space transportation services or other space-related activities, the primary control of which is held by persons other than a Federal, State, local, or foreign government.

(2) State.— The term “State” means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.

(b) In General.— Except as otherwise required by law, in calculating the cost effectiveness of the cost of the Administration engaging in an activity as compared to a commercial provider, the Administrator shall compare the cost of the Administration engaging in the activity using full cost accounting principles with the price the commercial provider will charge for such activity.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/124/3366).)*

In subsection (a), definitions of “commercial provider” and “State” are added to carry forward the appropriate definitions from section 3 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2000 ([Public Law 106–391](/us/pl/106/391), [114 Stat. 1579](/us/stat/114/1579), 1580).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30308(a) | (no source) |  |
| 30308(b) | 42 U.S.C. 2459h. | Pub. L. 106–391, title III, § 304, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1592. |
