---
title: "§ 1703. Consultation and reports"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–223, title II, § 204](/us/pl/95/223/tII/s204), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/91/1627).)"
---
# § 1703. Consultation and reports

##### § 1703. Consultation and reports

(a) Consultation with Congress The President, in every possible instance, shall consult with the Congress before exercising any of the authorities granted by this chapter and shall consult regularly with the Congress so long as such authorities are exercised.

(b) Report to Congress upon exercise of Presidential authorities Whenever the President exercises any of the authorities granted by this chapter, he shall immediately transmit to the Congress a report specifying—

(1) the circumstances which necessitate such exercise of authority;

(2) why the President believes those circumstances constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States;

(3) the authorities to be exercised and the actions to be taken in the exercise of those authorities to deal with those circumstances;

(4) why the President believes such actions are necessary to deal with those circumstances; and

(5) any foreign countries with respect to which such actions are to be taken and why such actions are to be taken with respect to those countries.

(c) Periodic follow-up reports At least once during each succeeding six-month period after transmitting a report pursuant to subsection (b) with respect to an exercise of authorities under this chapter, the President shall report to the Congress with respect to the actions taken, since the last such report, in the exercise of such authorities, and with respect to any changes which have occurred concerning any information previously furnished pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (b).

(d) Supplemental requirements The requirements of this section are supplemental to those contained in title IV of the National Emergencies Act [[50 U.S.C. 1641](/us/usc/t50/s1641)].

*([Pub. L. 95–223, title II, § 204](/us/pl/95/223/tII/s204), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/91/1627).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Emergencies Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is [Pub. L. 94–412](/us/pl/94/412), Sept. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1255](/us/stat/90/1255). Title IV of the National Emergencies Act enacted subchapter IV (§ 1641) of chapter 34 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1601) and Tables.
