---
title: "§ 51328. Student support"
identifier: "USC-T46-S51328"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section51328"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3531/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/136/3087).)"
---
# § 51328. Student support

##### § 51328. Student support

(1) require a biannual survey of midshipmen, faculty, and staff of the Academy assessing the environment of the Academy; and

(2) require an annual survey of faculty and staff of the Academy assessing the Sea Year program.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3531/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/136/3087).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### United States Merchant Marine Academy Student Support Plan

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(d)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3531/d), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3087](/us/stat/136/3087), provided that: “(1) Student support plan.—Not later than January 1, 2023, the Maritime Administrator shall issue a Student Support Plan for the United States Merchant Marine Academy, in consultation with relevant mental health professionals in the Federal Government or experienced with the maritime industry or related industries. Such plan shall—“(A) address the mental health resources available to midshipmen, both on-campus and during Sea Year; “(B) establish a tracking system for suicidal ideations and suicide attempts of midshipmen, which excludes personally identifiable information; “(C) create an option for midshipmen to obtain assistance from a professional care provider virtually; and “(D) require an annual survey of faculty and staff assessing the adequacy of mental health resources for midshipmen of the Academy, both on campus and during Sea Year. “(2) Report to congress.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this section [Dec. 23, 2022], the Maritime Administrator shall provide Congress with a report on the resources necessary to properly implement this subsection.”
