---
title: "§ 20928. Sex Offender Management Assistance (SOMA) program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20928"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20928"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 126](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s126), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 599](/us/stat/120/599).)"
---
# § 20928. Sex Offender Management Assistance (SOMA) program

##### § 20928. Sex Offender Management Assistance (SOMA) program

(a) In general The Attorney General shall establish and implement a Sex Offender Management Assistance program (in this subchapter referred to as the “SOMA program”), under which the Attorney General may award a grant to a jurisdiction to offset the costs of implementing this subchapter.

(b) Application The chief executive of a jurisdiction desiring a grant under this section shall, on an annual basis, submit to the Attorney General an application in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General may require.

(c) Bonus payments for prompt compliance A jurisdiction that, as determined by the Attorney General, has substantially implemented this subchapter not later than 2 years after July 27, 2006, is eligible for a bonus payment. The Attorney General may make such a payment under the SOMA program for the first fiscal year beginning after that determination. The amount of the payment shall be—

(1) 10 percent of the total received by the jurisdiction under the SOMA program for the preceding fiscal year, if that implementation is not later than 1 year after July 27, 2006; and

(2) 5 percent of such total, if not later than 2 years after July 27, 2006.

(d) Authorization of appropriations In addition to any amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to the Attorney General, to be available only for the SOMA program, for fiscal years 2007 through 2009.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 126](/us/pl/109/248/tI/s126), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 599](/us/stat/120/599).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 109–248](/us/pl/109/248), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 590](/us/stat/120/590), known as the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16926 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16926), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
