---
title: "§ 11315. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11315"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11315"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title II, § 205](/us/pl/100/77/tII/s205), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 488](/us/stat/101/488); [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, § 1004(a)(5)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/s1004/a/5), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/123/1668).)"
---
# § 11315. Powers

##### § 11315. Powers

(a) Meetings For the purpose of carrying out this subchapter, the Council may hold such meetings, and sit and act at such times and places, as the Council considers appropriate.

(b) Delegation Any member or employee of the Council may, if authorized by the Council, take any action that the Council is authorized to take in this subchapter.

(c) Information The Council may secure directly from any Federal agency such information as may be necessary to enable the Council to carry out this subchapter. Upon request of the Chairperson of the Council, the head of such agency shall furnish such information to the Council.

(d) Donations The Council may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services or property, both real and personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Council.

(e) Mails The Council may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other Federal agencies.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title II, § 205](/us/pl/100/77/tII/s205), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 488](/us/stat/101/488); [Pub. L. 111–22, div. B, § 1004(a)(5)](/us/pl/111/22/dB/s1004/a/5), May 20, 2009, [123 Stat. 1668](/us/stat/123/1668).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2009—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22) substituted “property, both real and personal, public and private, without fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Council.” for “property.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22) effective on, and applicable beginning on, May 20, 2009, see [section 1004(b) of Pub. L. 111–22](/us/pl/111/22/s1004/b), set out as a note under [section 11311 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s11311).
