---
title: "§ 7291. Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–91, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/91/tVII/s701), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 605](/us/stat/91/605).)"
---
# § 7291. Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel

##### § 7291. Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the personnel employed in connection with, and the assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of appropriations authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available to or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred by this chapter, subject to [section 1531 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1531), are hereby transferred to the Secretary for appropriate allocation. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to this subsection shall only be used for the purposes for which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated.

(b) Positions expressly specified by statute or reorganization plan to carry out function 11 So in original. Probably should be “functions”. transferred by this chapter, personnel occupying those positions on October 1, 1977, and personnel authorized to receive compensation in such positions at the rate prescribed for offices and positions at level I, II, III, IV, or V of the executive schedule ([5 U.S.C. 5312–531](/us/usc/t5/s5312–531)6) on October 1, 1977, shall be subject to the provisions of [section 7293 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7293).

*([Pub. L. 95–91, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/91/tVII/s701), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 605](/us/stat/91/605).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 565](/us/stat/91/565), known as the Department of Energy Organization Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7101) and Tables.

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), “[section 1531 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1531)” substituted for “section 202 of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950 [[31 U.S.C. 581c](/us/usc/t31/s581c)]” on authority of [Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s4/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/96/1067), the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.
