---
title: "§ 7371. Statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7371"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7371"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–294, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/96/294/tIV/s402), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 715](/us/stat/94/715).)"
---
# § 7371. Statement of purpose

##### § 7371. Statement of purpose

The purpose of this subchapter is to establish incentives for the use of renewable energy resources, to improve and coordinate the dissemination of information to the public with respect to renewable energy resources, to encourage the use of certain cost effective solar energy systems and conservation measures by the Federal Government, to establish a program for the promotion of local energy self-sufficiency, to broaden the existing program for accelerating the procurement and use of photovoltaic systems, and to provide further encouragement for the development of small hydroelectric power projects.

*([Pub. L. 96–294, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/96/294/tIV/s402), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 715](/us/stat/94/715).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of [Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 715](/us/stat/94/715), known as the Renewable Energy Resources Act of 1980. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

Section 401 of title IV [Pub. L. 96–294](/us/pl/96/294) provided that: “This title [enacting this subchapter, amending sections 8255, 8271, and 8274 to 8276 of this title and sections 2705 and 2708 of Title 16, Conservation, and enacting a provision set out as a note under [section 2701 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s2701)] may be cited as the ‘Renewable Energy Resources Act of 1980’.”
