---
title: "§ 423. Establishment of pierhead and bulkhead lines in Wilmington Harbor, California"
identifier: "USC-T33-S423"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section423"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "(Mar. 26, 1908, No. 14, [35 Stat. 569](/us/stat/35/569); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 423. Establishment of pierhead and bulkhead lines in Wilmington Harbor, California

##### § 423. Establishment of pierhead and bulkhead lines in Wilmington Harbor, California

The Secretary of the Army is authorized to fix and establish pierhead and bulkhead lines, either or both, in the inner harbor of San Pedro, otherwise known as Wilmington Harbor, California, beyond which no piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other works shall be extended or deposits made except under such regulations as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of the Army.

*(Mar. 26, 1908, No. 14, [35 Stat. 569](/us/stat/35/569); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions, powers, and duties of Secretary of the Army and other offices and officers of Department of the Army under [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s401) to extent that they relate generally to location and clearances of bridges and causeways in navigable waters of United States transferred to and vested in Secretary of Transportation by [Pub. L. 89–670, § 6(g)(6)(A)](/us/pl/89/670/s6/g/6/A), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 941](/us/stat/80/941), which created Department of Transportation. [Pub. L. 97–449](/us/pl/97/449) amended [section 401 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s401) to reflect transfer made by [section 6(g)(6)(A) of Pub. L. 89–670](/us/pl/89/670/s6/g/6/A), and repealed section 6(g)(6)(A).
