---
title: "§ 10384. Limitation on use of funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10384"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10384"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1704](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1704), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/108/1812); amended [Pub. L. 118–64, § 5](/us/pl/118/64/s5), May 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/138/1436).)"
---
# § 10384. Limitation on use of funds

##### § 10384. Limitation on use of funds

(a) Nonsupplanting requirement Funds made available under this subchapter to States or units of local government shall not be used to supplant State or local funds, or, in the case of Indian tribal governments, funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, but shall be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds received under this subchapter, be made available from State or local sources, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, from funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(b) Non-Federal costs

(1) In general States and units of local government may use assets received through the Assets Forfeiture equitable sharing program to provide the non-Federal share of the cost of programs, projects, and activities funded under this subchapter.

(2) Indian tribal governments Funds appropriated by the Congress for the activities of any agency of an Indian tribal government or the Bureau of Indian Affairs performing law enforcement functions on any Indian lands may be used to provide the non-Federal share of the cost of programs or projects funded under this subchapter.

(c) Hiring costs Funding provided under this subchapter for hiring or rehiring a career law enforcement officer may not exceed $75,000, unless the Attorney General grants a waiver from this limitation.

(d) Guidance for understaffed law enforcement agencies

(1) Definitions In this subsection:

(A) Covered applicant The term “covered applicant” means an applicant for a hiring grant under this subchapter seeking funding for a law enforcement agency operating below the budgeted strength of the law enforcement agency.

(B) Budgeted strength The term “budgeted strength” means the employment of the maximum number of sworn law enforcement officers the budget of a law enforcement agency allows the agency to employ.

(2) Procedures Not later than 180 days after May 24, 2024, the Attorney General shall establish consistent procedures for covered applicants, including guidance that—

(A) clarifies that covered applicants remain eligible for funding under this subchapter; and

(B) enables covered applicants to attest that the funding from a grant awarded under this subchapter is not being used by the law enforcement agency to supplant State or local funds, as described in subsection (a).

(3) Paperwork reduction In developing the procedures and guidance under paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall take measures to reduce paperwork requirements for grants to covered applicants.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1704](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1704), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1812](/us/stat/108/1812); amended [Pub. L. 118–64, § 5](/us/pl/118/64/s5), May 24, 2024, [138 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/138/1436).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796dd–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796dd–3), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 118–64](/us/pl/118/64) added subsec. (d).
