---
title: "§ 6482. Voluntary codes of conduct for United States institutions of higher education outside the United States"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6482"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6482"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–292, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/105/292/tVII/s702), as added [Pub. L. 114–281, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/114/281/tVI/s601), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1438](/us/stat/130/1438).)"
---
# § 6482. Voluntary codes of conduct for United States institutions of higher education outside the United States

##### § 6482. Voluntary codes of conduct for United States institutions of higher education outside the United States

(a) Finding Congress recognizes the enduring importance of United States institutions of higher education worldwide—

(1) for their potential for shaping positive leadership and new educational models in host countries; and

(2) for their emphasis on teaching universally recognized rights of free inquiry and academic freedom.

(b) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that United States institutions of higher education operating campuses outside the United States or establishing any educational entities with foreign governments, particularly with or in countries the governments of which engage in or tolerate severe violations of religious freedom as identified in the Annual Report, should seek to adopt a voluntary code of conduct for operating in such countries that should—

(1) uphold the right of freedom of religion of their employees and students, including the right to manifest that religion peacefully as protected in international law;

(2) ensure that the religious views and peaceful practice of religion in no way affect, or be allowed to affect, the status of a worker’s or faculty member’s employment or a student’s enrollment; and

(3) make every effort in all negotiations, contracts, or memoranda of understanding engaged in or constructed with a foreign government to protect academic freedom and the rights enshrined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights.

*([Pub. L. 105–292, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/105/292/tVII/s702), as added [Pub. L. 114–281, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/114/281/tVI/s601), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1438](/us/stat/130/1438).)*
