---
title: "§ 9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9594"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9594"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1085(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–289; amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(e)(8)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/e/8/A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3816](/us/stat/134/3816).)"
---
# § 9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public

##### § 9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public

(a) Authority.— Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Air Force may charge a person a fee for providing the person with information from the United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute that is requested by that person.

(b) Exceptions.— A fee may not be charged under this section—

(1) to a person for information that the person requests to carry out a duty as a member of the armed forces or an officer or employee of the United States; or

(2) for a release of information under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552).

(c) Limitation on Amount.— A fee charged for providing information under this section may not exceed the cost of providing the information.

(d) Retention of Fees.— Amounts received under subsection (a) for providing information in any fiscal year shall be credited to the appropriation or appropriations charged the costs of providing information to the public from the United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute during that fiscal year.

(e) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute” means the archive for historical records and materials of the Air Force and the Space Force that the Secretary of the Air Force designates as the primary archive for such records and materials.

(2) The terms “officer of the United States” and “employee of the United States” have the meanings given the terms “officer” and “employee”, respectively, in sections 2104 and 2105, respectively, of title 5.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title X, § 1085(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–289; amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(e)(8)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/e/8/A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3816](/us/stat/134/3816).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(e)(8)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/e/8/B), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as follows: “Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public”.

Subsecs. (a), (d). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(e)(8)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/e/8/A/i), inserted “Department of the” before “Air Force Military History”.

Subsec. (e)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(e)(8)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/e/8/A/ii), inserted “Department of the” before “Air Force Military History” and “and the Space Force” after “materials of the Air Force”.
