---
title: "§ 213. Declaration of policy and purpose"
identifier: "USC-T27-S213"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-14"
last_updated: "2024-06-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title27-section213"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "27"
source_credit: "([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title II, § 202, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4518](/us/stat/102/4518).)"
---
# § 213. Declaration of policy and purpose

##### § 213. Declaration of policy and purpose

(1) the public may be adequately reminded about any health hazards that may be associated with the consumption or abuse of alcoholic beverages through a nationally uniform, nonconfusing warning notice on each container of such beverages; and

(2) commerce and the national economy may be—

(A) protected to the maximum extent consistent with this declared policy,

(B) not impeded by diverse, nonuniform, and confusing requirements for warnings or other information on alcoholic beverage containers with respect to any relationship between the consumption or abuse of alcoholic beverages and health, and

(C) protected from the adverse effects that would result from a noncomprehensive program covering alcoholic beverage containers sold in interstate commerce, but not alcoholic beverage containers manufactured and sold within a single State.

*([Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814), title II, § 202, as added [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4518](/us/stat/102/4518).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Act Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 814, title II, § 210](/us/act/1935-08-29/ch814/tII/s210), as added Nov. 18, 1988, [Pub. L. 100–690, title VIII, § 8001(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/tVIII/s8001/a/3), [102 Stat. 4521](/us/stat/102/4521), provided that: “Except as provided in section 204(a) [[27 U.S.C. 215(a)](/us/usc/t27/s215/a)], this title [enacting this subchapter] shall take effect on the date of its enactment into law [Nov. 18, 1988].”

#### Short Title

For short title of title II of act Aug. 29, 1935, which is classified to this subchapter, as the “Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988”, see section 201 of act Aug. 29, 1935, set out as a note under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t27/s201).
