---
title: "§ 2296c. Border control assistance"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2296c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2296c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499C, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–124.)"
---
# § 2296c. Border control assistance

##### § 2296c. Border control assistance

(a) Purpose of assistance The purpose of assistance under this section includes the assistance of the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia to secure their borders and implement effective controls necessary to prevent the trafficking of illegal narcotics and the proliferation of technology and materials related to weapons of mass destruction (as defined in [section 2332a(c)(2) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2332a/c/2)), and to contain and inhibit transnational organized criminal activities.

(b) Authorization for assistance To carry out the purpose of subsection (a), the President is authorized to provide assistance to the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia to support the activities described in subsection (c).

(c) Activities supported Activities that may be supported by assistance under subsection (b) include assisting those countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia in developing capabilities to maintain national border guards, coast guard, and customs controls.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. I, § 499C, as added [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(2) [title V, § 596(b)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/2/tV/s596/b), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535](/us/stat/113/1535), 1501A–124.)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
