---
title: "§ 3105. Summary of intelligence relating to terrorist recidivism of detainees held at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 506I, as added [Pub. L. 112–87, title III, § 307(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/87/tIII/s307/a/1), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/125/1882); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5701(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5701/a/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/133/2159).)"
---
# § 3105. Summary of intelligence relating to terrorist recidivism of detainees held at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

##### § 3105. Summary of intelligence relating to terrorist recidivism of detainees held at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

(a) In general The Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, shall make publicly available an unclassified summary of—

(1) intelligence relating to recidivism of detainees currently or formerly held at the Naval Detention Facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of Defense; and

(2) an assessment of the likelihood that such detainees will engage in terrorism or communicate with persons in terrorist organizations.

(b) Updates Not less frequently than annually, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Secretary of Defense, shall update and make publicly available an unclassified summary consisting of the information required by subsection (a) and the number of individuals formerly detained at Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, who are confirmed or suspected of returning to terrorist activities after release or transfer from such Naval Station.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 506I, as added [Pub. L. 112–87, title III, § 307(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/87/tIII/s307/a/1), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1882](/us/stat/125/1882); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LVII, § 5701(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLVII/s5701/a/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2159](/us/stat/133/2159).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 415a–11 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s415a–11) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2019—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “annually” for “once every 6 months”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Initial Update

[Pub. L. 112–87, title III, § 307(a)(2)](/us/pl/112/87/tIII/s307/a/2), Jan. 3, 2012, [125 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/125/1883), provided that: “The initial update required by section 506I(b) of such Act [[act July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343); [50 U.S.C. 3105(b)](/us/usc/t50/s3105/b)], as added by paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall be made publicly available not later than 10 days after the date the first report following the date of the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 [Jan. 3, 2012] is submitted to members and committees of Congress pursuant to section 319 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 ([Public Law 111–32](/us/pl/111/32); [10 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t10/s801) note).”
