---
title: "§ 6581. Reorganization of Agency for International Development"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6581"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6581"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XV, § 1511, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–793](/us/stat/112/2681-793).)"
---
# § 6581. Reorganization of Agency for International Development

##### § 6581. Reorganization of Agency for International Development

(a) In general The Agency for International Development shall be reorganized in accordance with this chapter and the reorganization plan transmitted pursuant to [section 6601 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6601).

(b) Functions to be transferred The reorganization of the Agency for International Development shall provide, at a minimum, for the transfer to and consolidation with the Department of State of the following functions of AID:

(1) The Press office.

(2) Certain administrative functions.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XV, § 1511, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–793](/us/stat/112/2681-793).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this subdivision”, meaning subdiv. A of div. G of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–765](/us/stat/112/2681-765), known as the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998. For complete classification of this subdivision to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XV, § 1501, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–793](/us/stat/112/2681-793), provided that: “This title [enacting this subchapter], and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect on the earlier of— “(1) April 1, 1999; or “(2) the date of reorganization [Apr. 1, 1999] of the Agency for International Development pursuant to the reorganization plan described in section 1601 [[22 U.S.C. 6601](/us/usc/t22/s6601)].”
