---
title: "§ 7710. Improving enforcement by providing rewards for information about violations; labeling"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7710"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7710"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–187, § 11](/us/pl/108/187/s11), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2717](/us/stat/117/2717).)"
---
# § 7710. Improving enforcement by providing rewards for information about violations; labeling

##### § 7710. Improving enforcement by providing rewards for information about violations; labeling

(1) a report, within 9 months after December 16, 2003, that sets forth a system for rewarding those who supply information about violations of this chapter, including—

(A) procedures for the Commission to grant a reward of not less than 20 percent of the total civil penalty collected for a violation of this chapter to the first person that—

(i) identifies the person in violation of this chapter; and

(ii) supplies information that leads to the successful collection of a civil penalty by the Commission; and

(B) procedures to minimize the burden of submitting a complaint to the Commission concerning violations of this chapter, including procedures to allow the electronic submission of complaints to the Commission; and

(2) a report, within 18 months after December 16, 2003, that sets forth a plan for requiring commercial electronic mail to be identifiable from its subject line, by means of compliance with Internet Engineering Task Force Standards, the use of the characters “ADV” in the subject line, or other comparable identifier, or an explanation of any concerns the Commission has that cause the Commission to recommend against the plan.

*([Pub. L. 108–187, § 11](/us/pl/108/187/s11), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2717](/us/stat/117/2717).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in par. (1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 108–187](/us/pl/108/187), Dec. 16, 2003, [117 Stat. 2699](/us/stat/117/2699), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7701) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 2004, see [section 16 of Pub. L. 108–187](/us/pl/108/187/s16), set out as a note under [section 7701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7701).
