---
title: "§ 3077. Treatment under Freedom of Information Act"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3077"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3077"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–258, § 9](/us/pl/117/258/s9), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2385](/us/stat/136/2385).)"
---
# § 3077. Treatment under Freedom of Information Act

##### § 3077. Treatment under Freedom of Information Act

(a) In general Except as provided in subsection (c), the following information shall be exempt from disclosure under [section 552 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552):

(1) Information that a representative of an Indian Tribe or Native Hawaiian organization—

(A) submits to a Federal agency pursuant to this chapter or an amendment made by this Act; and

(B) designates as sensitive or private according to Native American custom, law, culture, or religion.

(2) Information that any person submits to a Federal agency pursuant to this chapter or an amendment made by this Act that relates to an item for which an export certification is denied under this chapter.

(b) Applicability For purposes of subsection (a), this chapter shall be considered a statute described in [section 552(b)(3)(B) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3/B).

(c) Exception An Indian Tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may request and shall receive its own information, as described in subsection (a), from the Federal agency to which the Indian Tribe or Native Hawaiian organization submitted the information.

*([Pub. L. 117–258, § 9](/us/pl/117/258/s9), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2385](/us/stat/136/2385).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 117–258](/us/pl/117/258), Dec. 21, 2022, [136 Stat. 2372](/us/stat/136/2372), known as the Safeguard Tribal Objects of Patrimony Act of 2021, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3071 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s3071) and Tables.

An amendment made by this Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (2), means the amendment made by [Pub. L. 117–258](/us/pl/117/258), which amended [section 1170 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1170), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
