---
title: "§ 3334j. Access to certain facilities of United States Government for assessment of anomalous health conditions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334j"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334j"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVI/s604), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 996](/us/stat/136/996).)"
---
# § 3334j. Access to certain facilities of United States Government for assessment of anomalous health conditions

##### § 3334j. Access to certain facilities of United States Government for assessment of anomalous health conditions

(a) Assessment The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that the elements of the intelligence community provide to individuals described in subsection (c) who are experiencing symptoms of anomalous health conditions timely access for medical assessment to facilities of the United States Government with expertise in traumatic brain injury.

(b) Process for assessment and treatment In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence shall coordinate with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of such Federal agencies as the Director considers appropriate to ensure that, by not later than 60 days after March 15, 2022, there is a process to provide the individuals described in subsection (c) with timely access to the National Intrepid Center of Excellence, an Intrepid Spirit Center, or an appropriate medical treatment facility for assessment as described in subsection (a) and, if necessary, treatment.

(c) Individuals described The individuals described in this subsection are employees of elements of the intelligence community and the dependents or other immediate family members of such employees.

*([Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tVI/s604), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 996](/us/stat/136/996).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “intelligence community”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
