---
title: "§ 2043. Transfers for insufficient consideration"
identifier: "USC-T26-S2043"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section2043"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 388](/us/stat/68A/388); [Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, § 425(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/369/dA/tIV/s425/a/1), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 803](/us/stat/98/803).)"
---
# § 2043. Transfers for insufficient consideration

##### § 2043. Transfers for insufficient consideration

(a) In general If any one of the transfers, trusts, interests, rights, or powers enumerated and described in sections 2035 to 2038, inclusive, and section 2041 is made, created, exercised, or relinquished for a consideration in money or money’s worth, but is not a bona fide sale for an adequate and full consideration in money or money’s worth, there shall be included in the gross estate only the excess of the fair market value at the time of death of the property otherwise to be included on account of such transaction, over the value of the consideration received therefor by the decedent.

(b) Marital rights not treated as consideration

(1) In general For purposes of this chapter, a relinquishment or promised relinquishment of dower or curtesy, or of a statutory estate created in lieu of dower or curtesy, or of other marital rights in the decedent’s property or estate, shall not be considered to any extent a consideration “in money or money’s worth”.

(2) Exception For purposes of section 2053 (relating to expenses, indebtedness, and taxes), a transfer of property which satisfies the requirements of paragraph (1) of section 2516 (relating to certain property settlements) shall be considered to be made for an adequate and full consideration in money or money’s worth.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 388](/us/stat/68A/388); [Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, § 425(a)(1)](/us/pl/98/369/dA/tIV/s425/a/1), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 803](/us/stat/98/803).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–369](/us/pl/98/369) amended subsec. (b) generally, designating existing provisions as par. (1) and adding par. (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

[Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title IV, § 425(c)(1)](/us/pl/98/369/dA/tIV/s425/c/1), July 18, 1984, [98 Stat. 804](/us/stat/98/804), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section and [section 2053 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s2053)] shall apply to estates of decedents dying after the date of the enactment of this Act [July 18, 1984].”
