---
title: "§ 1628a. Exchange of information related to trade enforcement"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1628a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1628a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 628A, as added [Pub. L. 114–125, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/114/125/tIII/s302/a), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 149](/us/stat/130/149).)"
---
# § 1628a. Exchange of information related to trade enforcement

##### § 1628a. Exchange of information related to trade enforcement

(a) In general Subject to subsections (c) and (d), if the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection suspects that merchandise is being imported into the United States in violation of [section 1526 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1526) or section 602, 1201(a)(2), or 1201(b)(1) of title 17 and determines that the examination or testing of the merchandise by a person described in subsection (b) would assist the Commissioner in determining if the merchandise is being imported in violation of that section, the Commissioner, to permit the person to conduct the examination and testing—

(1) shall provide to the person information that appears on the merchandise and its packaging and labels, including unredacted images of the merchandise and its packaging and labels; and

(2) may, subject to any applicable bonding requirements, provide to the person unredacted samples of the merchandise.

(b) Person described A person described in this subsection is—

(1) in the case of merchandise suspected of being imported in violation of [section 1526 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1526), the owner of the trademark suspected of being copied or simulated by the merchandise;

(2) in the case of merchandise suspected of being imported in violation of [section 602 of title 17](/us/usc/t17/s602), the owner of the copyright suspected of being infringed by the merchandise;

(3) in the case of merchandise suspected of being primarily designed or produced for the purpose of circumventing a technological measure that effectively controls access to a work protected under that title, and being imported in violation of section 1201(a)(2) of that title, the owner of a copyright in the work; and

(4) in the case of merchandise suspected of being primarily designed or produced for the purpose of circumventing protection afforded by a technological measure that effectively protects a right of an owner of a copyright in a work or a portion of a work, and being imported in violation of section 1201(b)(1) of that title, the owner of the copyright.

(c) Limitation Subsection (a) applies only with respect to merchandise suspected of infringing a trademark or copyright that is recorded with U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(d) Exception The Commissioner may not provide under subsection (a) information, photographs, or samples to a person described in subsection (b) if providing such information, photographs, or samples would compromise an ongoing law enforcement investigation or national security.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 628A, as added [Pub. L. 114–125, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/114/125/tIII/s302/a), Feb. 24, 2016, [130 Stat. 149](/us/stat/130/149).)*
