---
title: "§ 460u–23. Acquisition of interest in area VII–A"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460u–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460u–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–761, § 23](/us/pl/89/761/s23), as added [Pub. L. 96–612, § 1(13)](/us/pl/96/612/s1/13), Dec. 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 3577](/us/stat/94/3577).)"
---
# § 460u–23. Acquisition of interest in area VII–A

##### § 460u–23. Acquisition of interest in area VII–A

(a) Public access requirements The Secretary may acquire only such interest in that portion of area VII–A which is described in subsection (b) as the Secretary determines is necessary to assure public access over said portion of area VII–A.

(b) Portion of area VII–A subject to acquisition The portion of area VII–A, as designated on the map referred to in [section 460u of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460u), to which subsection (a) applies is a parcel of land bounded—

(1) on the east by a line three hundred feet east of the electrical transmission line crossing area VII–A on January 1, 1979;

(2) on the west by a line fifty feet west of such electrical transmission line; and

(3) on the north and south by the northern and southern boundaries, respectively, of area VII–A.

(c) Boundaries of area VII–A Area VII–A includes the bed of the railroad tracks forming the northern and northwestern boundaries of this area and extends to the northern edge of the bed of the railroad tracks forming the southern boundaries of this area.

(d) Inclusion in area I–D Area I–D includes the bed of the railroad tracks along the northern boundary of this area.

(e) Exclusions from area VII–C The area designated as area VII–C on the map referred to in [section 460u of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460u) does not include approximately 1.3 acres of land on which the Linde Air Products plant is situated, nor does it include approximately 1 acre of land on which the Old Union Station building and the adjacent REA building are situated. Except as provided in the foregoing sentence, area VII–C extends to, but does not include, the beds of the railroad tracks forming the northern and southern boundaries of such area.

*([Pub. L. 89–761, § 23](/us/pl/89/761/s23), as added [Pub. L. 96–612, § 1(13)](/us/pl/96/612/s1/13), Dec. 28, 1980, [94 Stat. 3577](/us/stat/94/3577).)*
