---
title: "§ 732. Protection of whistleblowers as criteria in evaluation of supervisors"
identifier: "USC-T38-S732"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section732"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–41, title I, § 102(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/41/tI/s102/a/3), June 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 865](/us/stat/131/865).)"
---
# § 732. Protection of whistleblowers as criteria in evaluation of supervisors

##### § 732. Protection of whistleblowers as criteria in evaluation of supervisors

(a) Development and Use of Criteria Required.— The Secretary, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection, shall develop criteria that—

(1) the Secretary shall use as a critical element in any evaluation of the performance of a supervisory employee; and

(2) promotes the protection of whistleblowers.

(b) Principles for Protection of Whistleblowers.— The criteria required by subsection (a) shall include principles for the protection of whistleblowers, such as the degree to which supervisory employees respond constructively when employees of the Department report concerns, take responsible action to resolve such concerns, and foster an environment in which employees of the Department feel comfortable reporting concerns to supervisory employees or to the appropriate authorities.

(c) Supervisory Employee and Whistleblower Defined.— In this section, the terms “supervisory employee” and “whistleblower” have the meanings given such terms in [section 323 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s323).

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–41, title I, § 102(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/41/tI/s102/a/3), June 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 865](/us/stat/131/865).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 732, added [Pub. L. 114–223, div. A, title II, § 247(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/223/dA/tII/s247/a/1), Sept. 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 884](/us/stat/130/884), related to treatment of whistleblower complaints, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 115–41, title I, § 102(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/41/tI/s102/a/1), June 23, 2017, [131 Stat. 865](/us/stat/131/865).
