---
title: "§ 20169. Speed limit action plans"
identifier: "USC-T49-S20169"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section20169"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22415(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22415/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 746](/us/stat/135/746).)"
---
# § 20169. Speed limit action plans

##### § 20169. Speed limit action plans

(a) In General.— Not later than March 3, 2016, each railroad carrier providing intercity rail passenger transportation or commuter rail passenger transportation, in consultation with any applicable host railroad carrier, shall survey its entire system and identify each main track location where there is a reduction of more than 20 miles per hour from the approach speed to a curve, bridge, or tunnel and the maximum authorized operating speed for passenger trains at that curve, bridge, or tunnel.

(b) Action Plans.— Not later than 120 days after the date that the survey under subsection (a) is complete, a railroad carrier described in subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of Transportation an action plan that—

(1) identifies each main track location where there is a reduction of more than 20 miles per hour from the approach speed to a curve, bridge, or tunnel and the maximum authorized operating speed for passenger trains at that curve, bridge, or tunnel;

(2) describes appropriate actions to enable warning and enforcement of the maximum authorized speed for passenger trains at each location identified under paragraph (1), including—

(A) modification to automatic train control systems, if applicable, or other signal systems;

(B) increased crew size;

(C) installation of signage alerting train crews of the maximum authorized speed for passenger trains in each location identified under paragraph (1);

(D) installation of alerters;

(E) increased crew communication; and

(F) other practices;

(3) contains milestones and target dates for implementing each appropriate action described under paragraph (2); and

(4) ensures compliance with the maximum authorized speed at each location identified under paragraph (1).

(c) Approval.— Not later than 90 days after the date on which an action plan is submitted under subsection (b) or (d)(2), the Secretary shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the action plan.

(d) Periodic Reviews and Updates.— Each railroad carrier that submits an action plan to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (b) shall—

(1) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Expansion and Rail Safety Act of 2021, and annually thereafter, review such plan to ensure the effectiveness of actions taken to enable warning and enforcement of the maximum authorized speed for passenger trains at each location identified pursuant to subsection (b)(1); and

(2) not later than 90 days before implementing any significant operational or territorial operating change, including initiating a new service or route, submit to the Secretary a revised action plan, after consultation with any applicable host railroad, that addresses such operational or territorial operating change.

(e) New Service.— If a railroad carrier providing intercity rail passenger transportation or commuter rail passenger transportation did not exist on the date of enactment of the FAST Act ([Public Law 114–94](/us/pl/114/94); [129 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/129/1312)), such railroad carrier, in consultation with any applicable host railroad carrier, shall—

(1) survey its routes pursuant to subsection (a) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Expansion and Rail Safety Act of 2021; and

(2) develop an action plan pursuant to subsection (b) not later than 120 days after the date on which such survey is complete.

(f) Alternative Safety Measures.— The Secretary may exempt from the requirements under this section each segment of track for which operations are governed by a positive train control system certified under section 20157, or any other safety technology or practice that would achieve an equivalent or greater level of safety in reducing derailment risk.

(g) Prohibition.— No new intercity or commuter rail passenger service may begin operation unless the railroad carrier providing such service is in compliance with the requirements under this section.

(h) Savings Clause.— Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit the Secretary from applying the requirements under this section to other segments of track at high risk of overspeed derailment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. B, title II, § 22415(a)](/us/pl/117/58/dB/tII/s22415/a), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 746](/us/stat/135/746).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the Passenger Rail Expansion and Rail Safety Act of 2021, referred to in subsecs. (d)(1) and (e)(1), is the date of enactment of title II of div. B of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), which was approved Nov. 15, 2021.

The date of enactment of the FAST Act, referred in subsec. (e), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 114–94](/us/pl/114/94), which was approved Dec. 4, 2015.
