---
title: "§ 2806. Contributions for North Atlantic Treaty Organizations Security Investment"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2806"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2806"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 97–214, § 2(a)](/us/pl/97/214/s2/a), July 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 156](/us/stat/96/156); amended [Pub. L. 97–321, title VIII, § 805(b)(1)](/us/pl/97/321/tVIII/s805/b/1), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1573](/us/stat/96/1573); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. B, title V, § 2503(a)](/us/pl/99/661/dB/tV/s2503/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/100/4039); [Pub. L. 100–26, § 7(f)(1)](/us/pl/100/26/s7/f/1), Apr. 21, 1987, [101 Stat. 281](/us/stat/101/281); [Pub. L. 102–190, div. B, title XXVIII, "
---
# § 2806. Contributions for North Atlantic Treaty Organizations Security Investment

##### § 2806. Contributions for North Atlantic Treaty Organizations Security Investment

(a) Within amounts authorized by law for such purpose, the Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the United States share of the cost of multilateral programs for the acquisition and construction of military facilities and installations (including international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area.

(b)

(1) Funds may not be obligated or expended in connection with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment program in any year unless such funds have been authorized by law for such program.

(2) If any funds authorized for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment program for a fiscal year are available to be obligated or expended at the end of that fiscal year and no funds have been authorized for the following fiscal year, not more than 50 percent of the amount authorized for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment program for that fiscal year shall be deemed to be authorized by law for purposes of paragraph (1) for the following fiscal year.

(c)

(1) The Secretary of Defense may make contributions in excess of the amount appropriated for contribution under subsection (a) if the amount of the contribution in excess of that amount does not exceed 200 percent of the amount specified by [section 2805(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2805/a) as the maximum amount for a minor military construction project.

(2) If the Secretary determines that the amount appropriated for contribution under subsection (a) in any fiscal year must be exceeded by more than the amount authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary may make contributions in excess of such amount, but not in excess of 125 percent of the amount appropriated, only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480), to the appropriate committees of Congress notice of the increase, including the reasons for the increase and the source of the funds to be used for the increase.

*(Added [Pub. L. 97–214, § 2(a)](/us/pl/97/214/s2/a), July 12, 1982, [96 Stat. 156](/us/stat/96/156); amended [Pub. L. 97–321, title VIII, § 805(b)(1)](/us/pl/97/321/tVIII/s805/b/1), Oct. 15, 1982, [96 Stat. 1573](/us/stat/96/1573); [Pub. L. 99–661, div. B, title V, § 2503(a)](/us/pl/99/661/dB/tV/s2503/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/100/4039); [Pub. L. 100–26, § 7(f)(1)](/us/pl/100/26/s7/f/1), Apr. 21, 1987, [101 Stat. 281](/us/stat/101/281); [Pub. L. 102–190, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2870(5)](/us/pl/102/190/dB/tXXVIII/s2870/5), Dec. 5, 1991, [105 Stat. 1563](/us/stat/105/1563); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(a)](/us/pl/104/201/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/a), (c)(1), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2787](/us/stat/110/2787); [Pub. L. 111–84, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(a)(3)](/us/pl/111/84/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/a/3), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2660](/us/stat/123/2660); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2803(b)](/us/pl/111/383/dB/tXXVIII/s2803/b), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4459](/us/stat/124/4459); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(a)(4)](/us/pl/115/91/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/a/4), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1840](/us/stat/131/1840); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, title XXV, § 2503](/us/pl/118/159/dB/tXXV/s2503), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2236](/us/stat/138/2236).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).

2017—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 2801(a)(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/91/s2801/a/4/A), inserted “of Defense” after “The Secretary”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 115–91, § 2801(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/115/91/s2801/a/4/B), substituted “, only after the end of the 14-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary submits, in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480), to the appropriate committees of Congress notice of the increase, including the reasons for the increase and the source of the funds to be used for the increase.” for “(A) after submitting a report in writing to the appropriate committees of Congress on such increase, including a statement of the reasons for the increase and a statement of the source of the funds to be used for the increase, and (B) after a period of 21 days has elapsed from the date of receipt of the report or, if earlier, a period of 14 days has elapsed from the date on which a copy of the report is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480).”

2011—Subsec. (c)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 111–383](/us/pl/111/383) inserted before period at end “or, if earlier, a period of 14 days has elapsed from the date on which a copy of the report is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to [section 480 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s480)”.

2009—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 111–84](/us/pl/111/84) substituted “section 2805(a)” for “section 2805(a)(2)”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201, § 2802(c)(1)](/us/pl/104/201/s2802/c/1), substituted “Organizations Security Investment” for “Organization Infrastructure” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–201, § 2802(a)](/us/pl/104/201/s2802/a), substituted “Security Investment program” for “Infrastructure program”.

1991—Subsec. (c)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 102–190](/us/pl/102/190) substituted “after” for “after either” and struck out before period at end “or after each such committee has indicated approval of the increased contribution”.

1987—Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 100–26](/us/pl/100/26) substituted “specified by [section 2805(a)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2805/a/2)” for “specified by law”.

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–661](/us/pl/99/661) inserted “and for related expenses” after “headquarters)”.

1982—[Pub. L. 97–321](/us/pl/97/321) substituted “Infrastructure” for “infrastructure” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

[Pub. L. 104–201, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2802(b)](/us/pl/104/201/dB/tXXVIII/s2802/b), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2787](/us/stat/110/2787), provided that: “Any reference to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure program in any Federal law, Executive order, regulation, delegation of authority, or document of or pertaining to the Department of Defense shall be deemed to refer to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment program.”

#### Effective Date of 2024 Amendment

[Pub. L. 118–159, div. B, § 2003](/us/pl/118/159/dB/s2003), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2212](/us/stat/138/2212), provided that: “Titles XXI through XXVII [of [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159), amending this section and enacting provisions related to military construction authorizations not set out in the Code] shall take effect on the later of— “(1) October 1, 2024; or “(2) the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2024].”

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

[Pub. L. 99–661, div. B, title V, § 2503(b)](/us/pl/99/661/dB/tV/s2503/b), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/100/4039), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply only with respect to contributions made with funds appropriated for fiscal years after fiscal year 1986.”

#### Effective Date

For effective date and applicability of section, see [section 12(a) of Pub. L. 97–214](/us/pl/97/214/s12/a), set out as a note under [section 2801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2801).

#### Restriction on Certain Funding

[Pub. L. 99–661, div. B, title V, § 2504](/us/pl/99/661/dB/tV/s2504), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 4039](/us/stat/100/4039), prohibited Secretary of Defense from obligating or expending any funds after fiscal year 1987 with respect to NATO infrastructure program under this section until Secretary submitted to Committees on Armed Services of Senate and House (1) a comprehensive master plan for establishing adequate active defenses for air bases in Europe at which operations of United States aircraft are planned, sites in Europe used by United States for logistic support of NATO or for prepositioned overseas matériel configured to unit sets, and (2) a report containing a certification by Secretary that sufficient funds have been budgeted by Department of Defense in fiscal year 1988 five-year defense plan to meet objectives of such comprehensive master plan.
