---
title: "§ 757. Utilization of State services; expenditure of funds"
identifier: "USC-T16-S757"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section757"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([May 11, 1938, ch. 193, § 3](/us/act/1938-05-11/ch193/s3), [52 Stat. 345](/us/stat/52/345); [Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 883, § 2](/us/act/1946-08-08/ch883/s2), [60 Stat. 932](/us/stat/60/932); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)"
---
# § 757. Utilization of State services; expenditure of funds

##### § 757. Utilization of State services; expenditure of funds

In carrying out the authorizations and duties imposed by [section 756 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s756), the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to utilize the facilities and services of the agencies of the States of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho responsible for the conservation of the fish and wildlife resources in such States, under the terms of agreements entered into between the United States and these States, without regard to the provisions of [section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101), and funds appropriated to carry out the purposes of sections 755 to 757 of this title may be expended for the construction of facilities on and the improvement of lands not owned or controlled by the United States: *Provided*, That the appropriate agency of the State wherein such construction or improvement is to be carried on first shall have obtained without cost to the United States the necessary title to, interest therein, rights-of-way over, or licenses covering the use of such lands.

*([May 11, 1938, ch. 193, § 3](/us/act/1938-05-11/ch193/s3), [52 Stat. 345](/us/stat/52/345); [Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 883, § 2](/us/act/1946-08-08/ch883/s2), [60 Stat. 932](/us/stat/60/932); 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, [84 Stat. 2090](/us/stat/84/2090).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In text, “[section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101)” substituted for “section 3709 of the Revised Statutes” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

#### Amendments

1946—Act Aug. 8, 1946, amended section generally to provide for utilization of State services, and for expenditure of funds for construction of facilities and improvements on lands not owned by the United States.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Transfer of functions to Secretary of Commerce from Secretary of the Interior, by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, see note set out under [section 755 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s755).
