---
title: "§ 4008. Establishment of Fisheries Promotional Fund"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4008"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4008"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 209](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s209), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3720](/us/stat/100/3720); [Pub. L. 101–627, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/101/627/tVII/s702), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4463](/us/stat/104/4463).)"
---
# § 4008. Establishment of Fisheries Promotional Fund

##### § 4008. Establishment of Fisheries Promotional Fund

(a) Establishment of Fund There is established in the Treasury of the United States a Fisheries Promotional Fund. The Fund shall be available, to the extent provided for in appropriation Acts, for the purpose of making payments to carry out the annual marketing and promotion plan and annual budget of the National Council under this chapter.

(b) Deposits There shall be deposited in the Fund—

(1) the moneys transferred to the Fund under [section 713c–3(b)(2) of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s713c–3/b/2);

(2) payments made voluntarily pursuant to [section 4007 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s4007); and

(3) receipts from investments made under subsection (c) of this section.

(c) Deposits and investments Sums in the Fund that are not currently needed for the purposes of the Fund shall be kept on deposit in appropriate interest-bearing accounts that shall be established by the Secretary of the Treasury, or invested in obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States. Any revenue accruing from such deposits and investments shall be deposited in the Fund.

(d) Authorization There are authorized to be appropriated from the Fund, for the purposes of carrying out the annual marketing and promotion plan and annual budget of the National Council under this chapter, such sums as are deposited in the Fund under subsection (b) of this section in each fiscal year beginning in fiscal year 1987 through fiscal year 1991.

*([Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 209](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s209), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3720](/us/stat/100/3720); [Pub. L. 101–627, title VII, § 702](/us/pl/101/627/tVII/s702), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4463](/us/stat/104/4463).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 209 of Pub. L. 99–659](/us/pl/99/659/s209). Subsec. (e) of [section 209 of Pub. L. 99–659](/us/pl/99/659/s209) amended [section 713c–3 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s713c–3), Commerce and Trade.

#### Amendments

1990—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 101–627](/us/pl/101/627) substituted “1991” for “1990”.
