---
title: "§ 3019. Tutorial assistance"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3019"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3019"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–689, title I, § 107(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/689/tI/s107/a/1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4167](/us/stat/102/4167), § 1419; renumbered § 3019 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), (c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 3019. Tutorial assistance

##### § 3019. Tutorial assistance

(a) An individual entitled to an educational assistance allowance under this chapter shall also be entitled to benefits provided an eligible veteran under [section 3492 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3492), subject to the conditions applicable to an eligible veteran under such section.

(b) The amount of such benefits payable under this section may not exceed $100 per month, for a maximum of twelve months, or until a maximum of $1,200 is utilized. This amount is in addition to the amount of educational assistance allowance payable to the individual under this chapter.

(c)

(1) An individual’s period of entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter shall be charged only with respect to the amount of tutorial assistance paid to the individual under this section in excess of $600.

(2) An individual’s period of entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter shall be charged at the rate of one month for each amount of assistance paid to the individual under this section in excess of $600 that is equal to the amount of the monthly educational assistance allowance which the individual is otherwise eligible to receive for full-time pursuit of an institutional course under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–689, title I, § 107(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/689/tI/s107/a/1), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4167](/us/stat/102/4167), § 1419; renumbered § 3019 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), (c)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), renumbered [section 1419 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1419) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(c)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/c/1), substituted “3492” for “1692”.
