---
title: "§ 556. Disposal of dredge vessels"
identifier: "USC-T40-S556"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section556"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1102](/us/stat/116/1102).)"
---
# § 556. Disposal of dredge vessels

##### § 556. Disposal of dredge vessels

(a) In General.— The Administrator of General Services, pursuant to sections 521 through 527, 529, and 549 of this title, may dispose of a United States Army Corps of Engineers vessel used for dredging, together with related equipment owned by the Federal Government and under the control of the Chief of Engineers, if the Secretary of the Army declares the vessel to be in excess of federal needs.

(b) Recipients and Purposes.— Disposal under this section is accomplished—

(1) through sale or lease to—

(A) a foreign government as part of a Corps of Engineers technical assistance program;

(B) a federal or state maritime academy for training purposes; or

(C) a non-federal public body for scientific, educational, or cultural purposes; or

(2) through sale solely for scrap to foreign or domestic interests.

(c) No Dredging Activities.— A vessel described in subsection (a) shall not be disposed of under any law for the purpose of engaging in dredging activities within the United States.

(d) Deposit of Amounts Collected.— Amounts collected from the sale or lease of a vessel or equipment under this section shall be deposited into the revolving fund authorized by section 101 (9th par.) of the Civil Functions Appropriation 11 So in original. Probably should be “Appropriations”. Act, 1954 ([33 U.S.C. 576](/us/usc/t33/s576)), to be available, as provided in appropriation laws, for the operation and maintenance of vessels under the control of the Corps of Engineers.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1102](/us/stat/116/1102).)*

In subsection (a), the words “U.S. Army Corps of Engineers” are substituted for “Corps of Engineers” for clarity. The words “Secretary of the Army” are substituted for “Secretary” because of section 2 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33:2201).

In subsection (d), the words “U.S. Army Corps of Engineers” are substituted for “Corps of Engineers” for clarity.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 556 | 40:483d. | Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 945, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4200. |
