---
title: "§ 5321. Crime prevention and security"
identifier: "USC-T49-S5321"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section5321"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 820](/us/stat/108/820); [Pub. L. 109–59, title III, § 3002(b)(4)](/us/pl/109/59/tIII/s3002/b/4), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1545](/us/stat/119/1545).)"
---
# § 5321. Crime prevention and security

##### § 5321. Crime prevention and security

The Secretary of Transportation may make capital grants from amounts available under [section 5338 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s5338) to public transportation systems for crime prevention and security. This chapter does not prevent the financing of a project under this section when a local governmental authority other than the grant applicant has law enforcement responsibilities.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 820](/us/stat/108/820); [Pub. L. 109–59, title III, § 3002(b)(4)](/us/pl/109/59/tIII/s3002/b/4), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1545](/us/stat/119/1545).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 5321 | 49 App.:1620. | July 9, 1964, Pub. L. 88–365, 78 Stat. 302, § 24; added Apr. 2, 1987, Pub. L. 100–17, § 325, 101 Stat. 237. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2005—[Pub. L. 109–59](/us/pl/109/59) substituted “public transportation” for “mass transportation”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 109–59, title III, § 3028(c)](/us/pl/109/59/tIII/s3028/c), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/119/1624), required the Secretaries of Transportation and Homeland Security to issue jointly final regulations to establish the characteristics of and requirements for public transportation security grants not later than 180 days after Aug. 10, 2005.

#### Public Transportation Security

[Pub. L. 109–59, title III, § 3028(b)](/us/pl/109/59/tIII/s3028/b), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1624](/us/stat/119/1624), provided that: “(1) In general.—Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 10, 2005], the Secretary [of Transportation] shall execute an annex to the memorandum of understanding between the Secretary and the Secretary of Homeland Security, dated September 28, 2004, to define and clarify the respective roles and responsibilities of the Department of Transportation and the Department of Homeland Security relating to public transportation security. “(2) Contents.—The annex to be executed under paragraph (1) shall—“(A) establish a process to develop security standards for public transportation agencies; “(B) create a method of direct coordination with public transportation agencies on security matters; “(C) address any other issues determined to be appropriate by the Secretary and the Secretary of Homeland Security; and “(D) include a formal and permanent mechanism to ensure coordination and involvement by the Department of Transportation, as appropriate, in public transportation security.”
