---
title: "§ 1171. Seizure and forfeiture of vessels"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–702, title III, § 301](/us/pl/89/702/tIII/s301), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/80/1096); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 844](/us/stat/97/844).)"
---
# § 1171. Seizure and forfeiture of vessels

##### § 1171. Seizure and forfeiture of vessels

(a) Every vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States that is employed in any manner in connection with a violation of the provision of this chapter, including its tackle, apparel, furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and stores shall be subject to forfeiture; and all fur seals, or parts thereof, taken or retained in violation of this chapter, or the monetary value thereof, shall be forfeited.

(b) All provisions of law relating to the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, and condemnation of a vessel, including its tackle, apparel, furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and stores for violation of the customs laws, the disposition of such vessel, including its tackle, apparel, furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and stores or the proceeds from the sale thereof, and the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under the provisions of this chapter, insofar as such provisions of law are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 89–702, title III, § 301](/us/pl/89/702/tIII/s301), Nov. 2, 1966, [80 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/80/1096); [Pub. L. 98–129, § 2](/us/pl/98/129/s2), Oct. 14, 1983, [97 Stat. 844](/us/stat/97/844).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1983—[Pub. L. 98–129](/us/pl/98/129) amended section generally, substituting provisions, which were contained in [section 1181 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1181), relating to seizure and forfeiture of vessels for provisions prohibiting the taking of sea otters on the high seas.
