---
title: "§ 55603. Multistate, State, Tribal, and regional transportation planning"
identifier: "USC-T46-S55603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section55603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3521(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3521/b/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/136/3078).)"
---
# § 55603. Multistate, State, Tribal, and regional transportation planning

##### § 55603. Multistate, State, Tribal, and regional transportation planning

(a) In General.— The Secretary, in consultation with Federal entities, State and local governments, Tribal governments, and appropriate private sector entities, may develop strategies to encourage the use of marine highway transportation for transportation of passengers and cargo.

(b) Strategies.— If the Secretary develops strategies under subsection (a), the Secretary may—

(1) assess the extent to which States, local governments, and Tribal governments include marine highway transportation and other marine transportation solutions in transportation planning;

(2) encourage State and Tribal departments of transportation to develop strategies, where appropriate, to incorporate marine highway transportation, ferries, and other marine transportation solutions for regional and interstate transport of freight and passengers in transportation planning; and

(3) encourage groups of States, Tribal governments, and multistate transportation entities to determine how marine highways can address congestion, bottlenecks, and other interstate transportation challenges.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. C, title XXXV, § 3521(b)(1)](/us/pl/117/263/dC/tXXXV/s3521/b/1), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3078](/us/stat/136/3078).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 55603, added [Pub. L. 110–140, title XI, § 1121(a)](/us/pl/110/140/tXI/s1121/a), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1761](/us/stat/121/1761), which related to an interagency board to identify and seek solutions to impediments hindering effective use of short sea transportation, was repealed by [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXIII) [LXXXIII], § 8332(d)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4704](/us/stat/134/4704).
