---
title: "§ 3302. Findings"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–325, title XIII, § 1312](/us/pl/102/325/tXIII/s1312), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 798](/us/stat/106/798).)"
---
# § 3302. Findings

##### § 3302. Findings

(1) there are increasing numbers of Indian students qualifying for postsecondary education, and there are increasing numbers desiring to go to postsecondary institutions;

(2) the needs of these students far outpace the resources available currently;

(3) Indian tribes have shown an increasing interest in administering programs serving these individuals and making decisions on these programs reflecting their determinations of the tribal and human needs;

(4) the contracting process under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act [[25 U.S.C. 5301](/us/usc/t25/s5301) et seq.] has provided a mechanism for the majority of the tribes to assume control over this program from the Bureau of Indian Affairs;

(5) however, inherent limitations in the contracting philosophy and mechanism, coupled with cumbersome administrative procedures developed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs have effectively limited the efficiency and effectiveness of these programs;

(6) the provision of these services in the most effective and efficient form possible is necessary for tribes, the country, and the individuals to be served; and

(7) these services are part of the Federal Government’s continuing trust responsibility to provide education services to American Indian and Alaska Natives.

*([Pub. L. 102–325, title XIII, § 1312](/us/pl/102/325/tXIII/s1312), July 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 798](/us/stat/106/798).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in par. (4), is [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§ 5301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.
