---
title: "§ 10362. State applications"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10362"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10362"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1602](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1602), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3404](/us/stat/106/3404); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(c)(2)(H)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/c/2/H), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3102](/us/stat/119/3102).)"
---
# § 10362. State applications

##### § 10362. State applications

(a) In general

(1) To request a grant under this subchapter, the chief executive of a State shall submit an application to the Director in such form and containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.

(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall include assurances that Federal funds received under this subchapter shall be used to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this subchapter.

(b) State office The office responsible for the trust fund required by [section 10158 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10158)—

(1) shall prepare the application required under this section; and

(2) shall administer grant funds received under this subchapter, including, review of spending, processing, progress, financial reporting, technical assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursement.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1602](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1602), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3404](/us/stat/106/3404); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1111(c)(2)(H)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1111/c/2/H), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3102](/us/stat/119/3102).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796cc–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796cc–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) substituted “The office responsible for the trust fund required by [section 3757 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3757)” for “The office designated under [section 3757 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3757)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) applicable with respect to the first fiscal year beginning after Jan. 5, 2006, and each fiscal year thereafter, see [section 1111(d) of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s1111/d), set out as a note under [section 10151 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10151).

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
