---
title: "§ 8514c. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons engaged in the diversion of goods intended for the people of Iran"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8514c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8514c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105C](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105C), as added [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, § 1249(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXII/s1249/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2015](/us/stat/126/2015).)"
---
# § 8514c. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons engaged in the diversion of goods intended for the people of Iran

##### § 8514c. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons engaged in the diversion of goods intended for the people of Iran

(a) Imposition of sanctions

(1) In general The President shall impose sanctions described in [section 8514(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/c) with respect to each person on the list required by subsection (b).

(2) Exception The requirement to impose sanctions under paragraph (1) shall not include the authority to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

(b) List of persons who engage in diversion

(1) In general As relevant information becomes available, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons that the President determines have, on or after January 2, 2013, engaged in corruption or other activities relating to—

(A) the diversion of goods, including agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices, intended for the people of Iran; or

(B) the misappropriation of proceeds from the sale or resale of such goods.

(2) Form of report; public availability

(A) Form The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(B) Public availability The unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.

(c) Good defined In this section, the term “good” has the meaning given that term in [section 8801(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8801/a).

*([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105C](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105C), as added [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, § 1249(a)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXII/s1249/a), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2015](/us/stat/126/2015).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of certain functions and authorities vested in the President by this section, see Memorandum of President of the United States, June 3, 2013, 78 F.R. 35545, set out as a note under [section 8801 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8801).
