---
title: "§ 21711. Supporting Federal cases involving elder justice"
identifier: "USC-T34-S21711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section21711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–70, title I, § 101](/us/pl/115/70/tI/s101), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1209](/us/stat/131/1209); [Pub. L. 116–252](/us/pl/116/252), §§ 2(a), 3(a), Dec. 22, 2020, [134 Stat. 1133](/us/stat/134/1133), 1134; [Pub. L. 117–103, div. Q, title I, § 112(e)](/us/pl/117/103/dQ/tI/s112/e), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 811](/us/stat/136/811).)"
---
# § 21711. Supporting Federal cases involving elder justice

##### § 21711. Supporting Federal cases involving elder justice

(a) Support and assistance

(1) Elder Justice Coordinators The Attorney General shall designate in each Federal judicial district not less than one Assistant United States Attorney to serve as the Elder Justice Coordinator for the district, who, in addition to any other responsibilities, shall be responsible for—

(A) serving as the legal counsel for the Federal judicial district on matters relating to elder abuse;

(B) prosecuting, or assisting in the prosecution of, elder abuse cases;

(C) conducting public outreach and awareness activities relating to elder abuse; and

(D) ensuring the collection of data required to be collected under [section 21722 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s21722).

(2) Investigative support The Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall, with respect to crimes relating to elder abuse, ensure the implementation of a regular and comprehensive training program to train agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the investigation and prosecution of such crimes and the enforcement of laws related to elder abuse, which shall include—

(A) specialized strategies for communicating with and assisting elder abuse victims; and

(B) relevant forensic training relating to elder abuse.

(3) Resource group The Attorney General, through the Executive Office for United States Attorneys, shall ensure the operation of a resource group to facilitate the sharing of knowledge, experience, sample pleadings and other case documents, training materials, and any other resources to assist prosecutors throughout the United States in pursuing cases relating to elder abuse.

(4) Designated elder justice working group or subcommittee to the Attorney General’s Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys Not later than 60 days after October 18, 2017, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys, shall establish a subcommittee or working group to the Attorney General’s Advisory Committee of United States Attorneys, as established under section 0.10 of title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto, for the purposes of advising the Attorney General on policies of the Department of Justice relating to elder abuse.

(b) Department of Justice Elder Justice Coordinator

(1) In general Not later than 60 days after October 18, 2017, the Attorney General shall designate an Elder Justice Coordinator within the Department of Justice who, in addition to any other responsibilities, shall be responsible for—

(A) coordinating and supporting the law enforcement efforts and policy activities for the Department of Justice on elder justice issues;

(B) evaluating training models to determine best practices and creating or compiling and making publicly available replication guides and training materials for law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, emergency responders, individuals working in victim services, adult protective services, social services, and public safety, medical personnel, mental health personnel, financial services personnel, and any other individuals whose work may bring them in contact with elder abuse regarding how to—

(i) conduct investigations in elder abuse cases;

(ii) address evidentiary issues and other legal issues, including witnesses who have Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias; and

(iii) appropriately assess, respond to, and interact with victims and witnesses in elder abuse cases (including victims and witnesses who have Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias), including in administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings; and

(C) carrying out such other duties as the Attorney General determines necessary in connection with enhancing the understanding, prevention, and detection of, and response to, elder abuse.

(2) Training materials

(A) In general In creating or compiling replication guides and training materials under paragraph (1)(B), the Elder Justice Coordinator shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, State, local, and Tribal adult protective services, aging, social, and human services agencies, Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies, and nationally recognized nonprofit associations with relevant expertise, as appropriate.

(B) Updating The Elder Justice Coordinator shall—

(i) review the best practices identified and replication guides and training materials created or compiled under paragraph (1)(B) to determine if the replication guides or training materials require updating; and

(ii) perform any necessary updating of the replication guides or training materials.

(c) Federal Trade Commission

(1) Federal Trade Commission Elder Justice Coordinator Not later than 60 days after October 18, 2017, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission shall designate within the Bureau of Consumer Protection of the Federal Trade Commission an Elder Justice Coordinator who, in addition to any other responsibilities, shall be responsible for—

(A) coordinating and supporting the enforcement and consumer education efforts and policy activities of the Federal Trade Commission on elder justice issues; and

(B) serving as, or ensuring the availability of, a central point of contact for individuals, units of local government, States, and other Federal agencies on matters relating to the enforcement and consumer education efforts and policy activities of the Federal Trade Commission on elder justice issues.

(2) 11 See Applicability of Amendment note below. Reports to Congress Not later than 1 year after October 18, 2017, and once every year thereafter, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and the Attorney General shall each submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report—

(A) detailing the enforcement actions taken by the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, respectively, over the preceding year in each case in which not less than one victim was an elder or that involved a financial scheme or scam that was either targeted directly toward or largely affected elders, including—

(i) the name of the district where the case originated;

(ii) the style of the case, including the case name and number;

(iii) a description of the scheme or scam; and

(iv) the outcome of the case.22 So in original. Subpar. (B) added by [Pub. L. 116–252](/us/pl/116/252) without conforming amendment to punctuation at end of subpar. (A)(iv).

(B) with respect to the report by the Attorney General, including a link to the publicly available best practices identified under subsection (b)(1)(B) and the replication guides and training materials created or compiled under such subsection; and

(C) with respect to the report by the Federal Trade Commission, in relevant years, including information on—

(i) the newly created materials, guidance, or recommendations of the Senior Scams Prevention Advisory Group established under section 112 of the Stop Senior Scams Act and any relevant views or considerations made by members of the Advisory Group that were not included in the Advisory Group’s model materials or considered an official recommendation by the Advisory Group;

(ii) the Senior Scams Prevention Advisory Group’s findings about senior scams and industry educational materials and programs; and

(iii) any recommendations on ways stakeholders can continue to work together to reduce scams affecting seniors.

(d) Use of appropriated funds No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 115–70, title I, § 101](/us/pl/115/70/tI/s101), Oct. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 1209](/us/stat/131/1209); [Pub. L. 116–252](/us/pl/116/252), §§ 2(a), 3(a), Dec. 22, 2020, [134 Stat. 1133](/us/stat/134/1133), 1134; [Pub. L. 117–103, div. Q, title I, § 112(e)](/us/pl/117/103/dQ/tI/s112/e), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 811](/us/stat/136/811).)*

#### Amendment of Section

For repeal of amendment by [Pub. L. 107–103](/us/pl/107/103), see Termination Date of 2022 Amendment note below.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 112 of the Stop Senior Scams Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(C), is [section 112 of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/s112), div. Q, title I, Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 809](/us/stat/136/809), which amended this section and enacted provisions set out as notes under this section and [section 45e of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s45e), Commerce and Trade.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c)(2)(C). [Pub. L. 117–103, § 112(e)](/us/pl/117/103/s112/e), (f), temporarily added subpar. (C). See Termination Date of 2022 Amendment note below.

2020—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–252, § 2(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/252/s2/a/1)–(3), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and inserted heading, redesignated former pars. (1) to (3) as subpars. (A) to (C), respectively, of par. (1), redesignated former subpars. (A) to (C) of par. (2) as clauses (i) to (iii), respectively, of par. (1)(B), and realigned margins.

Subsec. (b)(1)(B)(ii). [Pub. L. 116–252, § 2(a)(4)(A)](/us/pl/116/252/s2/a/4/A), inserted “, including witnesses who have Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias” after “other legal issues”.

Subsec. (b)(1)(B)(iii). [Pub. L. 116–252, § 2(a)(4)(B)](/us/pl/116/252/s2/a/4/B), substituted “elder abuse cases (including victims and witnesses who have Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias),” for “elder abuse cases,”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 116–252, § 2(a)(5)](/us/pl/116/252/s2/a/5), added par. (2).

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 116–252, § 3(a)](/us/pl/116/252/s3/a), substituted “a report—” for “a report” in introductory provisions, designated remainder of provisions as subpar. (A), redesignated former subpars. (A) to (D) as cls. (i) to (iv), respectively, of subpar. (A) and realigned margins, and added subpar. (B).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of 2022 Amendment

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. Q, title I, § 112(f)](/us/pl/117/103/dQ/tI/s112/f), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 811](/us/stat/136/811), provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle A of title I of div. Q of [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103), amending this section and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 45e and 58 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade], and the amendments made by this subtitle, ceases to be effective on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022].”

#### Effective Date and Applicability of 2020 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–252, § 2(b)](/us/pl/116/252/s2/b), Dec. 22, 2020, [134 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/134/1134), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall— “(1) take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2020]; and “(2) apply on and after the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.”

[Pub. L. 116–252, § 3(b)](/us/pl/116/252/s3/b), Dec. 22, 2020, [134 Stat. 1134](/us/stat/134/1134), provided that: “The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to the report under section 101(c)(2) of the Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act ([34 U.S.C. 21711(c)(2)](/us/usc/t34/s21711/c/2)) submitted during the second year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2020], and each year thereafter.”
