---
title: "§ 3909. Sense of Congress"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3909"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3909"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–19, § 10](/us/pl/108/19/s10), Apr. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 635](/us/stat/117/635).)"
---
# § 3909. Sense of Congress

##### § 3909. Sense of Congress

(a) Ongoing process It is the sense of the Congress that the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, officially launched on January 1, 2003, is an ongoing process. The President should work with Participants to strengthen the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme through the adoption of measures for the sharing of statistics on the production of and trade in rough diamonds, and for monitoring the effectiveness of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme in stemming trade in diamonds the importation or exportation of which is not controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.

(b) Statistics and reporting It is the sense of the Congress that under Annex III to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Participants recognized that reliable and comparable data on the international trade in rough diamonds are an essential tool for the effective implementation of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. Therefore, the executive branch should continue to—

(1) keep and publish statistics on imports and exports of rough diamonds under subheadings 7102.10.00, 7102.21, and 7102.31.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;

(2) make these statistics available for analysis by interested parties and by Participants; and

(3) take a leadership role in negotiating a standardized methodology among Participants for reporting statistics on imports and exports of rough diamonds.

*([Pub. L. 108–19, § 10](/us/pl/108/19/s10), Apr. 25, 2003, [117 Stat. 635](/us/stat/117/635).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1202).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 15 of Pub. L. 108–19](/us/pl/108/19/s15), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3901).
