---
title: "§ 150902. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T36-S150902"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section150902"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/112/1395).)"
---
# § 150902. Purposes

##### § 150902. Purposes

(1) to collect, analyze, develop, and disseminate in the public interest information and recommendations about—

(A) protection against radiation; and

(B) radiation measurements, quantities, and units, particularly those concerned with protection against radiation;

(2) to provide a means by which organizations concerned with the scientific and related aspects of protection against radiation and of radiation quantities, units, and measurements may cooperate for effective use of their combined resources, and to stimulate the work of those organizations;

(3) to develop basic concepts about—

(A) radiation quantities, units, and measurements;

(B) the application of those concepts; and

(C) protection against radiation; and

(4) to cooperate with the International Commission on Radiological Protection, the Federal Radiation Council, the International Commission on Radiological Units and Measurements, and other national and international organizations, governmental and private, concerned with radiation quantities, units, and measurements and with protection against radiation.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1395](/us/stat/112/1395).)*

In this section, the word “objects” is omitted as unnecessary. The words “protection against radiation” are used throughout, and the words “(referred to herein as ‘radiation protection’)” in 36:4503(1) are omitted, for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 150902 | 36:4503. | July 14, 1964, Pub. L. 88–376, § 3, 78 Stat. 321. |
