---
title: "§ 3740. Study on improving African agricultural practices"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3740"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3740"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–200, title I, § 130](/us/pl/106/200/tI/s130), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 274](/us/stat/114/274).)"
---
# § 3740. Study on improving African agricultural practices

##### § 3740. Study on improving African agricultural practices

(a) In general The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with American Land Grant Colleges and Universities and not-for-profit international organizations, is authorized to conduct a 2-year study on ways to improve the flow of American farming techniques and practices to African farmers. The study shall include an examination of ways of improving or utilizing—

The Secretary of Agriculture shall submit the study to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives not later than September 30, 2001.

(1) knowledge of insect and sanitation procedures;

(2) modern farming and soil conservation techniques;

(3) modern farming equipment (including maintaining the equipment);

(4) marketing crop yields to prospective purchasers; and

(5) crop maximization practices.

(b) Land Grant Colleges and not-for-profit institutions In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture is encouraged to consult with American Land Grant Colleges and not-for-profit international organizations that have firsthand knowledge of current African farming practices.

*([Pub. L. 106–200, title I, § 130](/us/pl/106/200/tI/s130), May 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 274](/us/stat/114/274).)*
