---
title: "§ 310. Chief Information Officer"
identifier: "USC-T38-S310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 382](/us/stat/105/382); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. E, title LVI, § 5604](/us/pl/104/106/dE/tLVI/s5604), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 700](/us/stat/110/700); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, § 1073(h)(3)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tX/s1073/h/3), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1907](/us/stat/111/1907); [Pub. L. 107–217, § 3(j)(2)](/us/pl/107/217/s3/j/2), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1300](/us/stat/116/1300).)"
---
# § 310. Chief Information Officer

##### § 310. Chief Information Officer

(a) The Chief Information Officer for the Department is designated pursuant to [section 3506(a)(2) of title 44](/us/usc/t44/s3506/a/2).

(b) The Chief Information Officer performs the duties provided for chief information officers of executive agencies under chapter 35 of title 44 and subtitle III of title 40.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 382](/us/stat/105/382); amended [Pub. L. 104–106, div. E, title LVI, § 5604](/us/pl/104/106/dE/tLVI/s5604), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 700](/us/stat/110/700); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title X, § 1073(h)(3)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tX/s1073/h/3), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1907](/us/stat/111/1907); [Pub. L. 107–217, § 3(j)(2)](/us/pl/107/217/s3/j/2), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1300](/us/stat/116/1300).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 310 was renumbered [section 1110 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1110).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 4(d) of Pub. L. 100–527](/us/pl/100/527/s4/d), known as the Department of Veterans Affairs Act, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–83, § 3(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s3/3).

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217) substituted “subtitle III of title 40” for “division E of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 ([40 U.S.C. 1401](/us/usc/t40/s1401) et seq.)”.

1997—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) substituted “division E of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 ([40 U.S.C. 1401](/us/usc/t40/s1401) et seq.)” for “the Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) substituted “Chief Information Officer” for “Chief Information Resources Officer” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text consisted of subsecs. (a) to (d), relating to designation, powers, and duties of the Chief Information Resources Officer.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) effective 180 days after Feb. 10, 1996, see [section 5701 of Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106/s5701), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 702](/us/stat/110/702).

#### Creation of Office of Research Reviews Within the Office of Information and Technology of the Department of Veterans Affairs

[Pub. L. 116–171, title VII, § 705](/us/pl/116/171/tVII/s705), Oct. 17, 2020, [134 Stat. 830](/us/stat/134/830), provided that: “(a) In General.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2020], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish within the Office of Information and Technology of the Department of Veterans Affairs an Office of Research Reviews (in this section referred to as the ‘Office’). “(b) Elements.—The Office shall do the following:“(1) Perform centralized security reviews and complete security processes for approved research sponsored outside the Department, with a focus on multi-site clinical trials. “(2) Develop and maintain a list of commercially available software preferred for use in sponsored clinical trials of the Department and ensure such list is maintained as part of the official approved software products list of the Department. “(3) Develop benchmarks for appropriate timelines for security reviews conducted by the Office. “(c) Report.—“(1) In general.—Not later than one year after the establishment of the Office, the Office shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the activity of the Office. “(2) Elements.—The report required by paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the following:“(A) The number of security reviews completed. “(B) The number of personnel assigned for performing the functions described in subsection (b).”
