---
title: "§ 4503. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S4503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section4503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 112](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s112), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/97/1137); [Pub. L. 107–171, title I, § 1505(g)](/us/pl/107/171/tI/s1505/g), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 209](/us/stat/116/209).)"
---
# § 4503. Issuance of orders

##### § 4503. Issuance of orders

(a) Notice and opportunity for public comment During the period beginning with November 29, 1983, and ending thirty days after receipt of a proposal for an initial dairy products promotion and research order, the Secretary shall publish such proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment upon the proposed order. The proposal for an order may be submitted by an organization certified under [section 4505 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s4505) or by any interested person affected by the provisions of this subchapter.

(b) Effective date of orders After notice and opportunity for public comment are given, as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall issue a dairy products promotion and research order. Such order shall become effective not later than ninety days following publication of the pro­posal.

(c) Amendment of orders The Secretary may, from time to time, amend a dairy products promotion and research order.

(d) Order implementation and international trade obligations The Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, shall ensure that the order is implemented in a manner consistent with the international trade obligations of the Federal Government.

*([Pub. L. 98–180, title I, § 112](/us/pl/98/180/tI/s112), Nov. 29, 1983, [97 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/97/1137); [Pub. L. 107–171, title I, § 1505(g)](/us/pl/107/171/tI/s1505/g), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 209](/us/stat/116/209).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171), which directed the addition of subsec. (d) at the end of section 112 of the Dairy Promotion Stabilization Act of 1983, was executed by adding subsec. (d) at the end of this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
