---
title: "§ 10744. Continuous carriage of freight"
identifier: "USC-T49-S10744"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section10744"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 821](/us/stat/109/821).)"
---
# § 10744. Continuous carriage of freight

##### § 10744. Continuous carriage of freight

A rail carrier providing transportation or service subject to the jurisdiction of the Board under this part may not enter a combination or arrangement to prevent the carriage of freight from being continuous from the place of shipment to the place of destination whether by change of time schedule, carriage in different cars, or by other means. The carriage of freight by those rail carriers is considered to be a continuous carriage from the place of shipment to the place of destination when a break of bulk, stoppage, or interruption is not made in good faith for a necessary purpose, and with the intent of avoiding or unnecessarily interrupting the continuous carriage or of evading this part.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title I, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tI/s102/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 821](/us/stat/109/821).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 10745 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s10745) prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a).

A prior section 10744, [Pub. L. 95–473](/us/pl/95/473), Oct. 17, 1978, [92 Stat. 1391](/us/stat/92/1391), related to liability for payment of rates, prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by [Pub. L. 104–88, § 102(a)](/us/pl/104/88/s102/a). See sections 10743 and 13706 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in [Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88](/us/pl/104/88/s2), set out as a note under [section 1301 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s1301).
