---
title: "§ 2317. Rapid response information system"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2317"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2317"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1417](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1417), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/110/2724); [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s612/c), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1410](/us/stat/120/1410).)"
---
# § 2317. Rapid response information system

##### § 2317. Rapid response information system

(a) Inventory of rapid response assets

(1) The head of each Federal Response Plan agency shall develop and maintain an inventory of physical equipment and assets under the jurisdiction of that agency that could be made available to aid State and local officials in search and rescue and other disaster management and mitigation efforts associated with an emergency involving weapons of mass destruction. The agency head shall submit a copy of the inventory, and any updates of the inventory, to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency for inclusion in the master inventory required under subsection (b).

(2) Each inventory shall include a separate listing of any equipment that is excess to the needs of that agency and could be considered for disposal as excess or surplus property for use for response and training with regard to emergencies involving weapons of mass destruction.

(b) Master inventory The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall compile and maintain a comprehensive listing of all inventories prepared under subsection (a). The first such master list shall be completed not later than December 31, 1997, and shall be updated annually thereafter.

(c) Addition to Federal response plan Not later than December 31, 1997, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall develop and incorporate into existing Federal emergency response plans and programs prepared under [section 5196(b) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5196/b) guidance on accessing and using the physical equipment and assets included in the master list developed under subsection 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (b)”. to respond to emergencies involving weapons of mass destruction.

(d) Database on chemical and biological materials The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall prepare a database on chemical and biological agents and munitions characteristics and safety precautions for civilian use. The initial design and compilation of the database shall be completed not later than December 31, 1997.

(e) Access to inventory and database The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall design and maintain a system to give Federal, State, and local officials access to the inventory listing and database maintained under this section in the event of an emergency involving weapons of mass destruction or to prepare and train to respond to such an emergency. The system shall include a secure but accessible emergency response hotline to access information and request assistance.

*([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1417](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1417), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2724](/us/stat/110/2724); [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)](/us/pl/109/295/tVI/s612/c), Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1410](/us/stat/120/1410).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” substituted for “Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency” wherever appearing in text on authority of [section 612(c) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/c), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313), Domestic Security. Any reference to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in title VI of [Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295) or an amendment by title VI to be considered to refer and apply to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency until Mar. 31, 2007, see [section 612(f)(2) of Pub. L. 109–295](/us/pl/109/295/s612/f/2), set out as a note under [section 313 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s313).
