---
title: "§ 1251. Environmental protection standards"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1251"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1251"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–87, title V, § 501](/us/pl/95/87/tV/s501), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 467](/us/stat/91/467).)"
---
# § 1251. Environmental protection standards

##### § 1251. Environmental protection standards

(a) Not later than the end of the ninety-day period immediately following August 3, 1977, the Secretary shall promulgate and publish in the Federal Register regulations covering an interim regulatory procedure for surface coal mining and reclamation operations setting mining and reclamation performance standards based on and incorporating the provisions set out in [section 1252(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1252/c). The issuance of the interim regulations shall be deemed not to be a major Federal action within the meaning of section 4332(2)(c) 11 So in original. Probably should be “4332(2)(C)”. of title 42. Such regulations, which shall be concise and written in plain, understandable language shall not be promulgated and published by the Secretary until he has—

The date, time, and place of any hearing held on the proposed regulations shall be set out in the publication of the proposed regulations. The Secretary shall consider all comments and relevant data presented at such hearing before final promulgation and publication of the regulations.

(A) published proposed regulations in the Federal Register and afforded interested persons and State and local governments a period of not less than thirty days after such publication to submit written comments thereon;

(B) obtained the written concurrence of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency with respect to those regulations promulgated under this section which relate to air or water quality standards promulgated under the authority of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended [[33 U.S.C. 1251](/us/usc/t33/s1251) et seq.]; and the Clean Air Act, as amended [[42 U.S.C. 7401](/us/usc/t42/s7401) et seq.]; and

(C) held at least one public hearing on the proposed regulations.

(b) Not later than one year after August 3, 1977, the Secretary shall promulgate and publish in the Federal Register regulations covering a permanent regulatory procedure for surface coal mining and reclamation operations performance standards based on and conforming to the provisions of this subchapter and establishing procedures and requirements for preparation, submission, and approval of State programs; and development and implementation of Federal programs under the subchapter. The Secretary shall promulgate these regulations, which shall be concise and written in plain, understandable language in accordance with the procedures in subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 95–87, title V, § 501](/us/pl/95/87/tV/s501), Aug. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 467](/us/stat/91/467).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(B), is [act June 30, 1948, ch. 758](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch758), [62 Stat. 1155](/us/stat/62/1155), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 92–500, § 2](/us/pl/92/500/s2), Oct. 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 816](/us/stat/86/816), which is classified generally to chapter 26 (§ 1251 et seq.) of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1251 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s1251) and Tables.

The Clean Air Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(B), is [act July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), [69 Stat. 322](/us/stat/69/322), which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.
