---
title: "§ 2074. Private remedies"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2074"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2074"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–573, § 25](/us/pl/92/573/s25), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1227](/us/stat/86/1227).)"
---
# § 2074. Private remedies

##### § 2074. Private remedies

(a) Liability at common law or under State statute not relieved by compliance Compliance with consumer product safety rules or other rules or orders under this chapter shall not relieve any person from liability at common law or under State statutory law to any other person.

(b) Evidence of Commission’s inaction inadmissible in actions relating to consumer products The failure of the Commission to take any action or commence a proceeding with respect to the safety of a consumer product shall not be admissible in evidence in litigation at common law or under State statutory law relating to such consumer product.

(c) Public information Subject to sections 2055(a)(2) and 2055(b) of this title but notwithstanding [section 2055(a)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2055/a/1), (1) any accident or investigation report made under this chapter by an officer or employee of the Commission shall be made available to the public in a manner which will not identify any injured person or any person treating him, without the consent of the person so identified, and (2) all reports on research projects, demonstration projects, and other related activities shall be public information.

*([Pub. L. 92–573, § 25](/us/pl/92/573/s25), Oct. 27, 1972, [86 Stat. 1227](/us/stat/86/1227).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the sixtieth day following Oct. 27, 1972, see [section 34 of Pub. L. 92–573](/us/pl/92/573/s34), set out as a note under [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2051).

#### Preemption

The provisions of this section establishing the extent to which the Consumer Product Safety Act [[15 U.S.C. 2051](/us/usc/t15/s2051) et seq.] preempts, limits, or otherwise affects any other Federal, State, or local law, any rule, procedure, or regulation, or any cause of action under State or local law not to be expanded or contracted in scope, or limited, modified or extended in application, by any rule or regulation under the Consumer Product Safety Act, or by reference in any preamble, statement of policy, executive branch statements, or other matter associated with the publication of any such rule or regulation, see [section 231 of Pub. L. 110–314](/us/pl/110/314/s231), set out as a note under [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2051).
