---
title: "§ 7620. Standardized air quality modeling"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7620"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7620"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title III, § 320, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title III, § 310](/us/pl/95/95/tIII/s310), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 782](/us/stat/91/782); amended [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)"
---
# § 7620. Standardized air quality modeling

##### § 7620. Standardized air quality modeling

(a) Conferences Not later than six months after August 7, 1977, and at least every three years thereafter, the Administrator shall conduct a conference on air quality modeling. In conducting such conference, special attention shall be given to appropriate modeling necessary for carrying out part C of subchapter I (relating to prevention of significant deterioration of air quality).

(b) Conferees The conference conducted under this section shall provide for participation by the National Academy of Sciences, representatives of State and local air pollution control agencies, and appropriate Federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation; 11 So in original. The semicolon probably should be a comma. the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

(c) Comments; transcripts Interested persons shall be permitted to submit written comments and a verbatim transcript of the conference proceedings shall be maintained.

(d) Promulgation and revision of regulations relating to air quality modeling The comments submitted and the transcript maintained pursuant to subsection (c) shall be included in the docket required to be established for purposes of promulgating or revising any regulation relating to air quality modeling under part C of subchapter I.

*([July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), title III, § 320, as added [Pub. L. 95–95, title III, § 310](/us/pl/95/95/tIII/s310), Aug. 7, 1977, [91 Stat. 782](/us/stat/91/782); amended [Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5115(c)](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5115/c), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/102/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) substituted “National Institute of Standards and Technology” for “National Bureau of Standards”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Aug. 7, 1977, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 406(d) of Pub. L. 95–95](/us/pl/95/95/s406/d), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401).
