---
title: "§ 3772. Sexual assault survivors’ rights"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3772"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3772"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–236, § 2(a)](/us/pl/114/236/s2/a), Oct. 7, 2016, [130 Stat. 966](/us/stat/130/966); amended [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title XV, § 1505](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tXV/s1505), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 956](/us/stat/136/956).)"
---
# § 3772. Sexual assault survivors’ rights

##### § 3772. Sexual assault survivors’ rights

(a) Rights of Sexual Assault Survivors.— In addition to those rights provided in section 3771, a sexual assault survivor has the following rights:

(1) The right not to be prevented from, or charged for, receiving a medical forensic examination.

(2) The right to—

(A) subject to paragraph (3), have a sexual assault evidence collection kit or its probative contents preserved, without charge, for the duration of the maximum applicable statute of limitations or 20 years, whichever is shorter;

(B) be informed of any result of a sexual assault evidence collection kit, including a DNA profile match, toxicology report, or other information collected as part of a medical forensic examination, if such disclosure would not impede or compromise an ongoing investigation;

(C) be informed in writing of policies governing the collection and preservation of a sexual assault evidence collection kit; and

(D) be informed of the status and location of a sexual assault evidence collection kit.

(3) The right to—

(A) upon written request, receive written notification from the appropriate official with custody not later than 60 days before the date of the intended destruction or disposal; and

(B) upon written request, be granted further preservation of the kit or its probative contents.

(4) The right to be informed of the rights under this subsection.

(b) Applicability.— Subsections (b) through (f) of section 3771 shall apply to sexual assault survivors.

(c) Definition of Sexual Assault.— In this section, the term “sexual assault” means any nonconsensual sexual act proscribed by Federal, tribal, or State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent.

(d) Funding.— This section, other than paragraphs (2)(A) and (3)(B) of subsection (a), shall be carried out using funds made available under section 1402(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 ([42 U.S.C. 10601(d)(3)(A)(i)](/us/usc/t42/s10601/d/3/A/i)).11 See References in Text note below. No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–236, § 2(a)](/us/pl/114/236/s2/a), Oct. 7, 2016, [130 Stat. 966](/us/stat/130/966); amended [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title XV, § 1505](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tXV/s1505), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 956](/us/stat/136/956).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 1402(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, referred to in subsec. (d), is section 1402(d)(3)(A)(i) of chapter XIV of title II of [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473), which was classified to [section 10601(d)(3)(A)(i) of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s10601/d/3/A/i), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification as [section 20101(d)(3)(A)(i) of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s20101/d/3/A/i), Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3772, acts [June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 846](/us/stat/62/846); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 60](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s60), [63 Stat. 98](/us/stat/63/98); July 7, 1958, [Pub. L. 85–508, § 12](/us/pl/85/508/s12)(*l*), [72 Stat. 348](/us/stat/72/348); Mar. 18, 1959, [Pub. L. 86–3, § 14(h)](/us/pl/86/3/s14/h), [73 Stat. 11](/us/stat/73/11); Oct. 12, 1984, [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 206](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s206), [98 Stat. 1986](/us/stat/98/1986), related to procedure after verdict, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 100–702, title IV](/us/pl/100/702/tIV), §§ 404(a), 407, Nov. 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 4651](/us/stat/102/4651), 4652, effective Dec. 1, 1988.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a)(2)(D). [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) added subpar. (D).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
