---
title: "§ 2911. Disclosure requirement for official business conducted using non-official electronic messaging accounts"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 113–187, § 10(a)](/us/pl/113/187/s10/a), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2014](/us/stat/128/2014).)"
---
# § 2911. Disclosure requirement for official business conducted using non-official electronic messaging accounts

##### § 2911. Disclosure requirement for official business conducted using non-official electronic messaging accounts

(a) In General.— An officer or employee of an executive agency may not create or send a record using a non-official electronic messaging account unless such officer or employee—

(1) copies an official electronic messaging account of the officer or employee in the original creation or transmission of the record; or

(2) forwards a complete copy of the record to an official electronic messaging account of the officer or employee not later than 20 days after the original creation or transmission of the record.

(b) Adverse Actions.— The intentional violation of subsection (a) (including any rules, regulations, or other implementing guidelines), as determined by the appropriate supervisor, shall be a basis for disciplinary action in accordance with subchapter I, II, or V of chapter 75 of title 5, as the case may be.

(c) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) Electronic messages.— The term “electronic messages” means electronic mail and other electronic messaging systems that are used for purposes of communicating between individuals.

(2) Electronic messaging account.— The term “electronic messaging account” means any account that sends electronic messages.

(3) Executive agency.— The term “executive agency” has the meaning given that term in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105).

*(Added [Pub. L. 113–187, § 10(a)](/us/pl/113/187/s10/a), Nov. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 2014](/us/stat/128/2014).)*
