---
title: "§ 201. Sets of standard weights and measures for agricultural colleges"
identifier: "USC-T15-S201"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section201"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "(Mar. 3, 1881, No. 26, [21 Stat. 521](/us/stat/21/521); [Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552), §§ 4, 10, [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826), 829; [Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141/s1), [37 Stat. 736](/us/stat/37/736).)"
---
# § 201. Sets of standard weights and measures for agricultural colleges

##### § 201. Sets of standard weights and measures for agricultural colleges

The Secretary of Commerce is directed to cause a complete set of all the weights and measures adopted as standards to be delivered to the governor of each State in the Union for the use of agricultural colleges in the States, respectively, which have received a grant of lands from the United States, and also one set of the same for the use of the Smithsonian Institution: *Provided*, That the cost of each set shall not exceed $200.

*(Mar. 3, 1881, No. 26, [21 Stat. 521](/us/stat/21/521); [Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552](/us/act/1903-02-14/ch552), §§ 4, 10, [32 Stat. 826](/us/stat/32/826), 829; [Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, § 1](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141/s1), [37 Stat. 736](/us/stat/37/736).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Act Mar. 4, 1913, created Department of Labor, and renamed Department of Commerce and Labor as Department of Commerce.

#### Transfer of Functions

Act Feb. 14, 1903, transferred National Bureau of Standards from Treasury Department to Department of Commerce and Labor.

#### Appropriation

A sum sufficient to carry out the provisions of this section was appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated by act Mar. 3, 1881.

#### Distribution to States

The Secretary of the Treasury was directed to cause a complete set of all the weights and measures adopted as standards to be delivered to the governor of each state for the use of the states by Res. June 14, 1836, No. 7, [5 Stat. 133](/us/stat/5/133), which provision was not incorporated into the Revised Statutes.
