---
title: "§ 9024. Director of Small Business Programs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9024"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9024"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title IX, § 904(e)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tIX/s904/e/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3401](/us/stat/119/3401), § 8024; renumbered § 9024, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(c)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/c), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)"
---
# § 9024. Director of Small Business Programs

##### § 9024. Director of Small Business Programs

(a) Director.— There is a Director of Small Business Programs in the Department of the Air Force. The Director is appointed by the Secretary of the Air Force.

(b) Office of Small Business Programs.— The Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force is the office that is established within the Department of the Air Force under section 15(k) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 644(k)](/us/usc/t15/s644/k)). The Director of Small Business Programs is the head of such office.

(c) Duties and Powers.—

(1) The Director of Small Business Programs shall, subject to paragraph (2), perform such duties regarding small business programs of the Department of the Air Force, and shall exercise such powers regarding those programs, as the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.

(2) Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act ([15 U.S.C. 644(k)](/us/usc/t15/s644/k)), except for the designations of the Director and the Office, applies to the Director of Small Business Programs.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title IX, § 904(e)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tIX/s904/e/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3401](/us/stat/119/3401), § 8024; renumbered § 9024, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(c)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/c), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior sections 9025 and 9027 were renumbered sections 9375 and 9377 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 8024 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8024) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Air Force and the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Air Force were redesignated the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force and the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force, respectively, by [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) which also provided that references to the former were deemed to refer to the latter. See [section 904(a) of Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163/s904/a), set out as a note under [section 144 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s144).

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
