---
title: "§ 838f. Marketing of Federal power; sales agent"
identifier: "USC-T16-S838f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section838f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–454, § 8](/us/pl/93/454/s8), Oct. 18, 1974, [88 Stat. 1377](/us/stat/88/1377).)"
---
# § 838f. Marketing of Federal power; sales agent

##### § 838f. Marketing of Federal power; sales agent

The Administrator is hereby designated as the marketing agent for all electric power generated by Federal generating plants in the Pacific Northwest, constructed by, under construction by, or presently authorized for construction by the Bureau of Reclamation or the United States Corps of Engineers except electric power required for the operation of each Federal project and except electric power from the Green Springs project of the Bureau of Reclamation.

*([Pub. L. 93–454, § 8](/us/pl/93/454/s8), Oct. 18, 1974, [88 Stat. 1377](/us/stat/88/1377).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Secretary of the Interior with respect to Bonneville Power Administration transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 7152(a)(1)(D), (2) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, with Bonneville Power Administration to be preserved as a distinct organizational entity within Department of Energy and headed by an Administrator.

Power marketing functions of Bureau of Reclamation, including construction, operation, and maintenance of transmission lines and attendant facilities, transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 7152(a)(1)(E), (3) of Title 42, and are to be exercised by Secretary through a separate Administration within Department of Energy.
