---
title: "§ 1309b. Research"
identifier: "USC-T30-S1309b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section1309b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–87, title VII, § 721](/us/pl/95/87/tVII/s721), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XXV, § 2504(c)(3)](/us/pl/102/486/tXXV/s2504/c/3), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3105](/us/stat/106/3105).)"
---
# § 1309b. Research

##### § 1309b. Research

The Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement is authorized to conduct studies, research and demonstration projects relating to the implementation of, and compliance with, subchapter V of this chapter, and provide technical assistance to states 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. for that purpose. Prior to approving any such studies, research or demonstration projects the Director, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, shall first consult with the Director, Bureau of Mines, and obtain a determination from such Director that the Bureau of Mines is not already conducting like or similar studies, research or demonstration projects. Studies, research and demonstration projects for the purposes of subchapter IV of this chapter shall only be conducted in accordance with section 1231(c)(6) 22 See References in Text note below. of this title.

*([Pub. L. 95–87, title VII, § 721](/us/pl/95/87/tVII/s721), as added [Pub. L. 102–486, title XXV, § 2504(c)(3)](/us/pl/102/486/tXXV/s2504/c/3), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3105](/us/stat/106/3105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1231(c)(6) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1231/c/6), referred to in text, was repealed and paragraph (8) of section 1231(c) was redesignated (6) by [Pub. L. 109–432, div. C, title II, § 201(a)(1)](/us/pl/109/432/dC/tII/s201/a/1), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3006](/us/stat/120/3006).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Bureau of Mines redesignated United States Bureau of Mines by [section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285](/us/pl/102/285/s10/b), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1). For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s1).
