---
title: "§ 460y–8. Survey and investigation area"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460y–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460y–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–476, § 9](/us/pl/91/476/s9), Oct. 21, 1970, [84 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/84/1070); [Pub. L. 94–579, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/94/579/tVI/s602), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2784](/us/stat/90/2784); [Pub. L. 109–362, § 8](/us/pl/109/362/s8), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2071](/us/stat/120/2071).)"
---
# § 460y–8. Survey and investigation area

##### § 460y–8. Survey and investigation area

(a) Description The survey and investigation area referred to in [section 460y of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460y) is described as follows:

(b) Acquisition of adjacent lands; limitations In addition to the lands described in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire such land outside the area but in close proximity thereto as is necessary to facilitate sound management. Acquisition hereunder shall, however, not exceed three hundred and twenty acres and shall be limited to such purposes as headquarters facility requirements, ingress and egress routes and, where necessary, to straighten boundaries or round out acquisitions.

(c) Additions In addition to the lands described in subsection (a) of this section, the land identified as the Punta Gorda Addition and the Southern Additions on the map entitled “King Range National Conservation Area Boundary Map No. 2”, dated July 29, 1975, is included in the survey and investigation area referred to in [section 460y of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460y).

(d) Further additions In addition to the land described in subsections (a) and (c), the land identified as the King Range National Conservation Area Additions on the map entitled “King Range Wilderness” and dated November 12, 2004, is included in the Area.

*([Pub. L. 91–476, § 9](/us/pl/91/476/s9), Oct. 21, 1970, [84 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/84/1070); [Pub. L. 94–579, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/94/579/tVI/s602), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2784](/us/stat/90/2784); [Pub. L. 109–362, § 8](/us/pl/109/362/s8), Oct. 17, 2006, [120 Stat. 2071](/us/stat/120/2071).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 109–362](/us/pl/109/362) added subsec. (d).

1976—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579) added subsec. (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Savings Provision

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579) not to be construed as terminating any valid lease, permit, patent, etc., existing on Oct. 21, 1976, see note set out under [section 1701 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1701), Public Lands.
