---
title: "§ 2342. Disposal of property"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2342"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2342"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 5, § 52, [69 Stat. 476](/us/stat/69/476); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 9](/us/pl/87/719/s9), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 665](/us/stat/76/665).)"
---
# § 2342. Disposal of property

##### § 2342. Disposal of property

(a) Property under lease or license agreement The Commission shall offer for disposal all real property (including such improvements thereon and such fixtures, equipment, and other personal property incident thereto as it may deem appropriate) within the community which is presently under lease or license agreement with the Commission or its community management contractor for residential, commercial or industrial, agricultural, church or other nonprofit use, or which, in the opinion of the Commission, is appropriate for such use, other than—

(1) structures which in the opinion of the Commission should be removed from the community because of their unsatisfactory type of construction, condition, or location; or

(2) property which in the opinion of the Commission should be transferred pursuant to subchapters VI or VII; or

(3) property which in the opinion of the Commission should be retained by the Commission for its own use.

(b) Discretionary disposal of other real property The Commission may, but shall not be required to, dispose of any other real property at the community, whether within or outside of that community.

(c) Terms and conditions; impairment of rights Such property shall be disposed of on such terms and conditions, consistent with this subchapter, as the Commission shall prescribe in the national interest, and without regard to any preferences or priorities whatever except those provided for pursuant to this chapter. Transfers by the Commission of such property shall not impair rights under existing leases and covenants, including any purchase rights therein conferred.

*([Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543](/us/act/1955-08-04/ch543), ch. 5, § 52, [69 Stat. 476](/us/stat/69/476); [Pub. L. 87–719, § 9](/us/pl/87/719/s9), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 665](/us/stat/76/665).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1962—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 87–719](/us/pl/87/719) added cl. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
