---
title: "§ 603. Disposition of moneys from disposal of materials"
identifier: "USC-T30-S603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([July 31, 1947, ch. 406, § 3](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch406/s3), [61 Stat. 681](/us/stat/61/681); [Aug. 31, 1950, ch. 830](/us/act/1950-08-31/ch830), [64 Stat. 571](/us/stat/64/571); [July 23, 1955, ch. 375, § 2](/us/act/1955-07-23/ch375/s2), [69 Stat. 368](/us/stat/69/368).)"
---
# § 603. Disposition of moneys from disposal of materials

##### § 603. Disposition of moneys from disposal of materials

All moneys received from the disposal of materials under this subchapter shall be disposed of in the same manner as moneys received from the sale of public lands, except that moneys received from the disposal of materials by the Secretary of Agriculture shall be disposed of in the same manner as other moneys received by the Department of Agriculture from the administration of the lands from which the disposal of materials is made, and except that revenues from the lands described in subchapter I of chapter 44 of title 43 and subchapter III of chapter 44 of title 43 shall be disposed of in accordance with said subchapters and except that moneys received from the disposal of materials from school section lands in Alaska, reserved under [section 1 of the Act of March 4, 1915](/us/act/1915-03-04/s1) ([38 Stat. 1214](/us/stat/38/1214)), shall be set apart as separate and permanent funds in the Territorial Treasury, as provided for income derived from said school section lands pursuant to said Act.

*([July 31, 1947, ch. 406, § 3](/us/act/1947-07-31/ch406/s3), [61 Stat. 681](/us/stat/61/681); [Aug. 31, 1950, ch. 830](/us/act/1950-08-31/ch830), [64 Stat. 571](/us/stat/64/571); [July 23, 1955, ch. 375, § 2](/us/act/1955-07-23/ch375/s2), [69 Stat. 368](/us/stat/69/368).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapter I of chapter 44 of title 43, referred to in text, was in the original a reference to [act Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876](/us/act/1937-08-28/ch876), [50 Stat. 874](/us/stat/50/874), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 2601 et seq.) of chapter 44 of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Subchapter III of chapter 44 of title 43, referred to in text, was in the original a reference to [act June 24, 1954, ch. 357](/us/act/1954-06-24/ch357), [68 Stat. 270](/us/stat/68/270), which is classified principally to subchapter III (§ 2631 et seq.) of chapter 44 of Title 43. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Act of March 4, 1915 ([38 Stat. 1214](/us/stat/38/1214)), referred to in text, is [act Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 181](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch181), [38 Stat. 1214](/us/stat/38/1214). Section 1 of that Act, which made reservation of certain Alaska lands for educational purposes, covered disposition of proceeds or income derived from reserved lands, and set out the exclusion of certain lands, was classified to [section 353 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s353), Territories and Insular Possessions, and was repealed by [Pub. L. 85–508, § 6(k)](/us/pl/85/508/s6/k), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 343](/us/stat/72/343). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

1955—Act July 23, 1955, provided for the disposal of moneys received by the Secretary of Agriculture, and for the disposal of revenues from lands described in subchapters I and III of chapter 44 of title 43.

1950—Act Aug. 31, 1950, provided for setting apart as separate and permanent funds in the Territorial Treasury moneys received from disposal of materials from school section lands in Alaska.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other appropriate officer or entity in Departments of Agriculture and the Interior under this subchapter to Federal Inspector of Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s601).

#### Admission of Alaska as State

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of [Pub. L. 85–508](/us/pl/85/508), July 7, 1958, [72 Stat. 339](/us/stat/72/339), set out as notes preceding [section 21 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s21), Territories and Insular Possessions.
