---
title: "§ 8151. Civil service retention rights"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8151"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8151"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 93–416, § 22](/us/pl/93/416/s22), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/88/1149); amended [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)"
---
# § 8151. Civil service retention rights

##### § 8151. Civil service retention rights

(a) In the event the individual resumes employment with the Federal Government, the entire time during which the employee was receiving compensation under this chapter shall be credited to the employee for the purposes of within-grade step increases, retention purposes, and other rights and benefits based upon length of service.

(b) Under regulations issued by the Office of Personnel Management—

(1) the department or agency which was the last employer shall immediately and unconditionally accord the employee, if the injury or disability has been overcome within one year after the date of commencement of compensation or from the time compensable disability recurs if the recurrence begins after the injured employee resumes regular full-time employment with the United States, the right to resume his former or an equivalent position, as well as all other attendant rights which the employee would have had, or acquired, in his former position had he not been injured or disabled, including the rights to tenure, promotion, and safeguards in reductions-in-force procedures, and

(2) the department or agency which was the last employer shall, if the injury or disability is overcome within a period of more than one year after the date of commencement of compensation, make all reasonable efforts to place, and accord priority to placing, the employee in his former or equivalent position within such department or agency, or within any other department or agency.

*(Added [Pub. L. 93–416, § 22](/us/pl/93/416/s22), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1149](/us/stat/88/1149); amended [Pub. L. 95–454, title IX, § 906(a)(2)](/us/pl/95/454/tIX/s906/a/2), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/92/1224).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Office of Personnel Management” for “Civil Service Commission”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to cases where injury or death occurred prior to Sept. 7, 1974, but only to a period beginning on or after Sept. 7, 1974, see [section 28(a) of Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416/s28/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1974 Amendment note under [section 8101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8101).
