---
title: "§ 6811. Enforcement and protection of receipts"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6811"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6811"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 812](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s812), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3390](/us/stat/118/3390).)"
---
# § 6811. Enforcement and protection of receipts

##### § 6811. Enforcement and protection of receipts

(a) Enforcement authority The Secretary concerned shall enforce payment of the recreation fees authorized by this chapter.

(b) Evidence of nonpayment If the display of proof of payment of a recreation fee, or the payment of a recreation fee within a certain time period is required, failure to display such proof as required or to pay the recreation fee within the time period specified shall constitute nonpayment.

(c) Joint liability The registered owner and any occupant of a vehicle charged with a nonpayment violation involving the vehicle shall be jointly liable for penalties imposed under this section, unless the registered owner can show that the vehicle was used without the registered owner’s express or implied permission.

(d) Limitation on penalties The failure to pay a recreation fee established under this chapter shall be punishable as a Class A or Class B misdemeanor, except that in the case of a first offense of nonpayment, the fine imposed may not exceed $100, notwithstanding [section 3571(e) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3571/e).

*([Pub. L. 108–447, div. J, title VIII, § 812](/us/pl/108/447/dJ/tVIII/s812), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3390](/us/stat/118/3390).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title VIII of div. J of [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3377](/us/stat/118/3377), known as the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of title VIII to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801) and Tables.
