---
title: "§ 1029. Forms"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1029"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1029"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 109](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s109), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 850](/us/stat/88/850).)"
---
# § 1029. Forms

##### § 1029. Forms

(a) Information required on forms Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary may require that any information required under this subchapter to be submitted to him, including but not limited to the information required to be filed by the administrator pursuant to section 1023(b)(3) and (c) of this title, must be submitted on such forms as he may prescribe.

(b) Information not required on forms The financial statement and opinion required to be prepared by an independent qualified public accountant pursuant to [section 1023(a)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1023/a/3/A), the actuarial statement required to be prepared by an enrolled actuary pursuant to [section 1023(a)(4)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1023/a/4/A) and the summary plan description required by [section 1022(a) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1022/a) shall not be required to be submitted on forms.

(c) Format and content of summary plan description, annual report, etc., required to be furnished to plan participants and beneficiaries The Secretary may prescribe the format and content of the summary plan description, the summary of the annual report described in [section 1024(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1024/b/3) and any other report, statements or documents (other than the bargaining agreement, trust agreement, contract, or other instrument under which the plan is established or operated), which are required to be furnished or made available to plan participants and beneficiaries receiving benefits under the plan.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 109](/us/pl/93/406/tI/s109), Sept. 2, 1974, [88 Stat. 850](/us/stat/88/850).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

Secretary authorized, effective Sept. 2, 1974, to promulgate regulations wherever provisions of this subchapter call for the promulgation of regulations, see [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1031).
