---
title: "§ 1375a. Report on coastal recreation waters"
identifier: "USC-T33-S1375a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section1375a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–284, § 7](/us/pl/106/284/s7), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 876](/us/stat/114/876).)"
---
# § 1375a. Report on coastal recreation waters

##### § 1375a. Report on coastal recreation waters

(a) In general Not later than 4 years after October 10, 2000, and every 4 years thereafter, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to Congress a report that includes—

(1) recommendations concerning the need for additional water quality criteria for pathogens and pathogen indicators and other actions that should be taken to improve the quality of coastal recreation waters;

(2) an evaluation of Federal, State, and local efforts to implement this Act, including the amendments made by this Act; and

(3) recommendations on improvements to methodologies and techniques for monitoring of coastal recreation waters.

(b) Coordination The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may coordinate the report under this section with other reporting requirements under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ([33 U.S.C. 1251](/us/usc/t33/s1251) et seq.).

*([Pub. L. 106–284, § 7](/us/pl/106/284/s7), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 876](/us/stat/114/876).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [Pub. L. 106–284](/us/pl/106/284), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 870](/us/stat/114/870), known as the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act of 2000. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Amendment note set out under [section 1251 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1251) and Tables.

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 30, 1948, ch. 758](/us/act/1948-06-30/ch758), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 92–500, § 2](/us/pl/92/500/s2), Oct. 18, 1972, [86 Stat. 816](/us/stat/86/816), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1251 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s1251) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act of 2000, and not as part of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act which comprises this chapter.
