---
title: "§ 335. Further extension in cases not covered by sections 333 and 334 of this title"
identifier: "USC-T43-S335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 147, § 5](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch147/s5), [38 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/38/1161); [Mar. 21, 1918, ch. 26](/us/act/1918-03-21/ch26), [40 Stat. 458](/us/stat/40/458).)"
---
# § 335. Further extension in cases not covered by sections 333 and 334 of this title

##### § 335. Further extension in cases not covered by sections 333 and 334 of this title

The Secretary of the Interior may, in his discretion, extend the time within which final proof is required to be submitted upon any lawful pending desert-land entry made prior to March 4, 1915, such extension not to exceed three years from the date of allowance thereof: *Provided*, That the entryman or his duly qualified assignee has, in good faith, complied with the requirements of law as to yearly expenditures and proof thereof, and shall show, under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, that there is a reasonable prospect that, if the extension is granted, he will be able to make the final proof of reclamation, irrigation, and cultivation required by law: *Provided further*, That the foregoing shall apply only to cases wherein an extension or further extension of time may not properly be allowed under sections 333 and 334 of this title or other law existing prior to March 4, 1915: *Provided further*, That in cases where such entries have been assigned prior to March 4, 1915, the assignees shall, if otherwise qualified, be entitled to the benefit hereof.

*([Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 147, § 5](/us/act/1915-03-04/ch147/s5), [38 Stat. 1161](/us/stat/38/1161); [Mar. 21, 1918, ch. 26](/us/act/1918-03-21/ch26), [40 Stat. 458](/us/stat/40/458).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of second paragraph of section 5 of act Mar. 4, 1915. First paragraph of such section 5, which was classified to section 26 of former Title 41, Public Contracts, was repealed by [act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title VI, § 602(a)(26)](/us/act/1949-06-30/ch288/tVI/s602/a/26), [63 Stat. 401](/us/stat/63/401), eff. July 1, 1949, renumbered [Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, § 6(a)](/us/act/1950-09-05/ch849/s6/a), (b), [64 Stat. 583](/us/stat/64/583); third and fourth paragraphs of such section 5 are classified to sections 337 and 338 of this title, respectively.

Act Mar. 21, 1918 extended provisions to include entries made prior to Mar. 4, 1915, and added the last proviso. Act Mar. 4, 1915, related to entries made prior to July 1, 1914.
