---
title: "§ 4001. Congressional findings"
identifier: "USC-T16-S4001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section4001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s202), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3715](/us/stat/100/3715).)"
---
# § 4001. Congressional findings

##### § 4001. Congressional findings

(1) the commercial fishing industry of the United States significantly contributes to the national economy, and could make a greater contribution if fish resources within the United States Exclusive Economic Zone were more fully utilized;

(2) the commercial fisheries of the United States provide significant employment in coastal areas and in processing and distribution centers;

(3) fish contribute an important nutritional component to the American diet;

(4) increased consumption of seafood in the United States could significantly lower the risk of many cardiovascular diseases;

(5) Federally supported development programs for commercial fisheries are unable to meet present and future marketing needs;

(6) many fish species are underutilized by the United States fishing industry because of underdeveloped markets; and

(7) the United States fishing industry has the potential to expand greatly its contribution to interstate and foreign commerce, favorably affecting the balance of trade.

*([Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s202), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3715](/us/stat/100/3715).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 201](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s201), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3715](/us/stat/100/3715), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter and amending [section 713c–3 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s713c–3), Commerce and Trade] may be cited as the ‘Fish and Seafood Promotion Act of 1986’.”

#### Report to Congress on Fish and Seafood Promotion

[Pub. L. 99–659, title II, § 219](/us/pl/99/659/tII/s219), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3731](/us/stat/100/3731), provided that: “The Secretary shall, not later than March 1, 1989, submit to the Congress a report on the effectiveness of the implementation of this title [enacting this chapter and amending [section 713c–3 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s713c–3), Commerce and Trade] in achieving the purposes of this title.”
