---
title: "§ 10451. Polygraph testing prohibition"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10451"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10451"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2013](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2013), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 101(g)](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s101/g), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2975](/us/stat/119/2975).)"
---
# § 10451. Polygraph testing prohibition

##### § 10451. Polygraph testing prohibition

(a) In general In order to be eligible for grants under this subchapter, a State, Indian tribal government, territorial government, or unit of local government shall certify that, not later than 3 years after January 5, 2006, their laws, policies, or practices will ensure that no law enforcement officer, prosecuting officer or other government official shall ask or require an adult, youth, or child victim of an alleged sex offense as defined under Federal, tribal, State, territorial, or local law to submit to a polygraph examination or other truth telling device as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of such an offense.

(b) Prosecution The refusal of a victim to submit to an examination described in subsection (a) shall not prevent the investigation, charging, or prosecution of the offense.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2013](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2013), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 101(g)](/us/pl/109/162/tI/s101/g), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 2975](/us/stat/119/2975).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796gg–8 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796gg–8), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section not effective until the beginning of fiscal year 2007, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162/s4), set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under [section 10261 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10261).
