---
title: "§ 857–17. Interagency cooperation and assistance"
identifier: "USC-T33-S857–17"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section857–17"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–63, § 6](/us/pl/95/63/s6), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266).)"
---
# § 857–17. Interagency cooperation and assistance

##### § 857–17. Interagency cooperation and assistance

(a) Liaison The head of each department or agency of the Federal Government concerned with marine and atmospheric matters shall designate a senior policy official to participate as observer in the work of the Committee and offer necessary assistance.

(b) Agency assistance The Committee is authorized to request from the head of any department, agency, or independent instrumentality of the Federal Government any information and assistance it deems necessary to carry out the functions assigned under sections 857–13 to 857–18 of this title. The head of each such department, agency, or instrumentality is authorized to cooperate with the Committee, and, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such information and assistance to the Committee upon request made by the Chairman, without reimbursement for such services and assistance.

(c) Administrative assistance The Secretary of Commerce shall make available to the Committee such staff, information, personnel, and administrative services and assistance as may reasonably be required to carry out the provisions of sections 857–13 to 857–18 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 95–63, § 6](/us/pl/95/63/s6), July 5, 1977, [91 Stat. 266](/us/stat/91/266).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those contained in this section, which required the designation of senior policy officials as observers, directed the Secretary of Commerce to provide administrative assistance, and authorized requests for assistance from Federal agencies by the Federal Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere as originally established on Aug. 16, 1971, were contained in sections 857–8 and 857–11 of this title prior to repeal by [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 95–63](/us/pl/95/63/s7/a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
