---
title: "§ 9573. Duties"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9573"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9573"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title V, § 100503](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tV/s100503), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1463](/us/stat/135/1463).)"
---
# § 9573. Duties

##### § 9573. Duties

(a) In general The Council shall provide advice to the Under Secretary by—

(1) serving as a source of knowledge and information on developments in areas of the economic and social life of the United States that affect socially or economically disadvantaged business concerns;

(2) providing the Under Secretary with information regarding plans, programs, and activities in the public and private sectors that relate to socially or economically disadvantaged business concerns; and

(3) advising the Under Secretary regarding—

(A) any measures to better achieve the objectives of this chapter; and

(B) problems and matters the Under Secretary refers to the Council.

(b) Capacity Members of the Council shall not be compensated for service on the Council but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.

(c) Termination Notwithstanding section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.),11 See References in Text note below. the Council shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after November 15, 2021.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title V, § 100503](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tV/s100503), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1463](/us/stat/135/1463).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(A), was in the original “this division”, meaning div. K of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1445](/us/stat/135/1445), which is classified prinicpally to this chapter. For complete classification of division K to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9501 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s9501) and Tables.

Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463](/us/pl/92/463/s14), which was set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and was repealed and restated as [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013) by [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), §§ 3(a), 7, Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4204](/us/stat/136/4204), 4361.
