---
title: "§ 1383. Procedural rules"
identifier: "USC-T2-S1383"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section1383"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–1, title III, § 303](/us/pl/104/1/tIII/s303), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 28](/us/stat/109/28).)"
---
# § 1383. Procedural rules

##### § 1383. Procedural rules

(a) In general The Executive Director shall, subject to the approval of the Board, adopt rules governing the procedures of the Office, including the procedures of hearing officers, which shall be submitted for publication in the Congressional Record. The rules may be amended in the same manner.

(b) Procedure The Executive Director shall adopt rules referred to in subsection (a) in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553). The Executive Director shall publish a general notice of proposed rulemaking under [section 553(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553/b), but, instead of publication of a general notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register, the Executive Director shall transmit such notice to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate for publication in the Congressional Record on the first day on which both Houses are in session following such transmittal. Before adopting rules, the Executive Director shall provide a comment period of at least 30 days after publication of a general notice of proposed rulemaking. Upon adopting rules, the Executive Director shall transmit notice of such action together with a copy of such rules to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate for publication in the Congressional Record on the first day on which both Houses are in session following such transmittal. Rules shall be considered issued by the Executive Director as of the date on which they are published in the Congressional Record.

*([Pub. L. 104–1, title III, § 303](/us/pl/104/1/tIII/s303), Jan. 23, 1995, [109 Stat. 28](/us/stat/109/28).)*
