---
title: "§ 1465. Congressional findings and declaration of purposes"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1465"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1465"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–111, § 2](/us/pl/98/111/s2), Oct. 4, 1983, [97 Stat. 749](/us/stat/97/749).)"
---
# § 1465. Congressional findings and declaration of purposes

##### § 1465. Congressional findings and declaration of purposes

(1) that it is the policy of the United States to support the right of the people of Cuba to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers, in accordance with article 19 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

(2) that, consonant with this policy, radio broadcasting to Cuba may be effective in furthering the open communication of accurate information and ideas to the people of Cuba, in particular information about Cuba;

(3) that such broadcasting to Cuba, operated in a manner not inconsistent with the broad foreign policy of the United States and in accordance with high professional standards, would be in the national interest; and

(4) that the Voice of America already broadcasts to Cuba information that represents America, not any single segment of American society, and includes a balanced and comprehensive projection of significant American thought and institutions but that there is a need for broadcasts to Cuba which provide news, commentary and other information about events in Cuba and elsewhere to promote the cause of freedom in Cuba.

*([Pub. L. 98–111, § 2](/us/pl/98/111/s2), Oct. 4, 1983, [97 Stat. 749](/us/stat/97/749).)*

#### Repeal of Section

Section repealed upon transmittal of determination by President under [section 6063(c)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6063/c/3) that democratically elected government in Cuba is in power, see [section 6037(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6037/c).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act which comprises this subchapter, and not as part of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 98–111, § 1](/us/pl/98/111/s1), Oct. 4, 1983, [97 Stat. 749](/us/stat/97/749), provided: “That this Act [enacting this subchapter] may be cited as the ‘Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act’.”
