---
title: "§ 1900. Interior Department programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1900"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1900"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–672, § 1](/us/pl/89/672/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 951](/us/stat/80/951); [Pub. L. 96–470, title I, § 108(a)](/us/pl/96/470/tI/s108/a), Oct. 19, 1980, [94 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/94/2239).)"
---
# § 1900. Interior Department programs

##### § 1900. Interior Department programs

(a) Authorization for research contracts The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter into contracts with educational institutions, public or private agencies or organizations, or persons for the conduct of scientific or technological research into any aspect of the problems related to the programs of the Department of the Interior which are authorized by statute.

(b) Capabilities of prospective contractors; advice and assistance, coordination of research, lines of inquiry, and cooperation The Secretary shall require a showing that the institutions, agencies, organizations, or persons with which he expects to enter into contracts pursuant to this section have the capability of doing effective work. He shall furnish such advice and assistance as he believes will best carry out the mission of the Department of the Interior, participate in coordinating all research initiated under this section, indicate the lines of inquiry which seem to him most important, and encourage and assist in the establishment and maintenance of cooperation by and between the institutions, agencies, organizations, or persons and between them and other research organizations, the United States Department of the Interior, and other Federal agencies.

(c) Research reports or publications The Secretary may from time to time disseminate in the form of reports or publications to public or private agencies or organizations, or individuals such information as he deems desirable on the research carried out pursuant to this section.

*([Pub. L. 89–672, § 1](/us/pl/89/672/s1), Oct. 15, 1966, [80 Stat. 951](/us/stat/80/951); [Pub. L. 96–470, title I, § 108(a)](/us/pl/96/470/tI/s108/a), Oct. 19, 1980, [94 Stat. 2239](/us/stat/94/2239).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1980—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 96–470](/us/pl/96/470) struck out subsec. (d) which provided that no contract involving more than $25,000 be executed under subsec. (a) of this section prior to 30 calendar days from the date submitted to the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 30 calendar days not include days on which either the Senate or House of Representatives is not in session because of an adjournment of more than 3 calendar days to a day certain or an adjournment sine die.
