---
title: "§ 531. Requirements relating to naming of Department property"
identifier: "USC-T38-S531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–368, title X, § 1001(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/368/tX/s1001/a/1), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3363](/us/stat/112/3363); amended [Pub. L. 117–137, § 1(a)](/us/pl/117/137/s1/a), June 7, 2022, [136 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/136/1254).)"
---
# § 531. Requirements relating to naming of Department property

##### § 531. Requirements relating to naming of Department property

(a) Naming Limitation.— Except as expressly provided by law or as authorized under subsection (b), a facility, structure, or real property of the Department, and a major portion (such as a wing or floor) of any such facility, structure, or real property, may be named only for the geographic area in which the facility, structure, or real property is located.

(b) Transfer of Names.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary may transfer the name of covered property of the Department to other covered property of the Department if—

(A) the original covered property was designated with that name by law;

(B) the Department no longer offers benefits or services at the original covered property;

(C) the other covered property is similar in type and purpose as the original covered property;

(D) the other covered property is located in a different location or at a different address from the original covered property within the town, city, or other local government area specified in the designation made by such law; and

(E) such transfer occurs not less than 30 days after the Secretary notifies the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each member of Congress representing the State in which the original covered property and other covered property are located of the intent of the Secretary to transfer the name of the original covered property to the other covered property.

(2) References.— If the Secretary transfers the name of covered property under paragraph (1), any reference in a law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the covered property originally named by law shall be deemed to be a reference to the covered property to which the name has been transferred under such paragraph.

(3) Covered property.— In this subsection, the term “covered property” means a facility, structure, or real property of the Department or a major portion (such as a wing or floor) of any such facility, structure, or real property.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–368, title X, § 1001(a)(1)](/us/pl/105/368/tX/s1001/a/1), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3363](/us/stat/112/3363); amended [Pub. L. 117–137, § 1(a)](/us/pl/117/137/s1/a), June 7, 2022, [136 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/136/1254).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–137, § 1(a)(2)](/us/pl/117/137/s1/a/2), (3), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, inserted “or as authorized under subsection (b)” after “Except as expressly provided by law”, and added subsec. (b).

[Pub. L. 117–137, § 1(a)(1)](/us/pl/117/137/s1/a/1), substituted “Requirements” for “Requirement” in section catchline.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–368, title X, § 1001(b)](/us/pl/105/368/tX/s1001/b), Nov. 11, 1998, [112 Stat. 3363](/us/stat/112/3363), provided that: “[Section 531 of title 38](/us/usc/t38/s531), United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), shall apply with respect to the assignment or designation of the name of a facility, structure, or real property of the Department of Veterans Affairs (or of a major portion thereof) after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 11, 1998].”
