---
title: "§ 2103. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–167, § 4](/us/pl/93/167/s4), Nov. 29, 1973, [87 Stat. 686](/us/stat/87/686).)"
---
# § 2103. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission

##### § 2103. Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission

(a) Statutory authority Except as provided in [section 2102 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2102), this chapter shall be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act [[15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.].

(b) Incorporation of Federal Trade Commission Act provisions The Commission shall prevent any person from violating the provisions of this chapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act [[15 U.S.C. 41](/us/usc/t15/s41) et seq.] were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter; and any such person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in said Federal Trade Commission Act, in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though the applicable terms and provisions of the said Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–167, § 4](/us/pl/93/167/s4), Nov. 29, 1973, [87 Stat. 686](/us/stat/87/686).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311](/us/act/1914-09-26/ch311), [38 Stat. 717](/us/stat/38/717), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 58 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s58) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only to imitation political items and imitation numismatic items manufactured after Nov. 29, 1973, see [section 8 of Pub. L. 93–167](/us/pl/93/167/s8), set out as a note under [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2101).
