---
title: "§ 300hh–36. Leadership exchange pilot for public health and medical preparedness and response positions at the Department of Health and Human Services"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300hh–36"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300hh–36"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2826, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2226](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2226), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5750](/us/stat/136/5750).)"
---
# § 300hh–36. Leadership exchange pilot for public health and medical preparedness and response positions at the Department of Health and Human Services

##### § 300hh–36. Leadership exchange pilot for public health and medical preparedness and response positions at the Department of Health and Human Services

(a) In general The Secretary may, not later than 1 year after December 29, 2022, establish a voluntary program to provide additional training to individuals in eligible positions, as described in subsection (c), to support the continuous professional development of such individuals.

(b) Criteria

(1) Duration The program under subsection (a) shall provide for fellowships, details, or other relevant placements with Federal agencies or departments, or State or local health departments, pursuant to the guidance issued under paragraph (2), for a maximum period of 2 years.

(2) Guidance The Secretary shall issue guidance establishing criteria for identifying placements that demonstrate ongoing sufficient mastery of knowledge, skills, and abilities to satisfy the field experience criteria under the program established under subsection (a), including assignments and experiences that develop public health and medical preparedness and response expertise.

(c) Eligible position For purposes of subsection (a), the term “eligible position” means any position at the Department of Health and Human Services at or above grade GS–13 of the General Schedule, or the equivalent, for which not less than 50 percent of the time of such position is spent on activities related to public health preparedness or response.

(d) Pilot period and final report The pilot program authorized under this section shall not exceed 5 years. Not later than 90 days after the end of the program, the Secretary shall issue a report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives that includes—

(1) the number of individuals who participated in such pilot, as applicable;

(2) a description of the professional growth experience in which individuals participated; and

(3) an assessment of the outcomes of such program, including a recommendation on whether such program should be continued.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVIII, § 2826, as added [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title II, § 2226](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tII/s2226), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5750](/us/stat/136/5750).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The General Schedule, referred to in subsec. (c), is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.
