---
title: "§ 1707. Property report"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1707"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1707"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1408](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1408), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 594](/us/stat/82/594); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098A(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098A/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/124/2105).)"
---
# § 1707. Property report

##### § 1707. Property report

(a) Contents of report A property report relating to the lots in a subdivision shall contain such of the information contained in the statement of record, and any amendments thereto, as the Director may deem necessary, but need not include the documents referred to in paragraphs (7) to (11), inclusive, of [section 1705 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1705). A property report shall also contain such other information as the Director may by rules or regulations require as being necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of purchasers.

(b) Promotional use The property report shall not be used for any promotional purposes before the statement of record becomes effective and then only if it is used in its entirety. No person may advertise or represent that the Director approves or recommends the subdivision or the sale or lease of lots therein. No portion of the property report shall be underscored, italicized, or printed in larger or bolder type than the balance of the statement unless the Director requires or permits it.

*([Pub. L. 90–448, title XIV, § 1408](/us/pl/90/448/tXIV/s1408), Aug. 1, 1968, [82 Stat. 594](/us/stat/82/594); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098A(1)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098A/1), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2105](/us/stat/124/2105).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Director” for “Secretary” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective upon the expiration of two hundred and seventy days after Aug. 1, 1968, see [section 1423 of Pub. L. 90–448](/us/pl/90/448/s1423), set out as a note under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1701).
