---
title: "§ 7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care"
identifier: "USC-T38-S7330B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section7330B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title VI, § 612(a)](/us/pl/114/315/tVI/s612/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/130/1575).)"
---
# § 7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care

##### § 7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care

(a) Report Required.— Not later than March 1 of each of years 2018 through 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on, for the calendar year preceding the calendar year during which the report is submitted—

(1) the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care under the laws administered by the Secretary; and

(2) the administration of the furnishing of such care and services by the Veterans Health Administration.

(b) Elements.— Each report required by subsection (a) shall include each of the following for the year covered by the report:

(1) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration in increasing the access of veterans to hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care furnished by the Secretary for which such veterans are eligible.

(2) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration in improving the quality of health care provided to veterans, without increasing the costs incurred for such health care by the Federal Government or veterans, including relevant information for each medical center and Veterans Integrated Service Network of the Department set forth separately.

(3) An assessment of—

(A) the workload of physicians and other employees of the Veterans Health Administration;

(B) patient demographics and utilization rates;

(C) physician compensation;

(D) the productivity of physicians and other employees of the Veterans Health Administration;

(E) the percentage of hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care provided to veterans in facilities of the Department and in non-Department facilities and any changes in such percentages compared to the year preceding the year covered by the report;

(F) pharmaceutical prices; and

(G) third-party health billings owed to the Department, including the total amount of such billings and the total amount collected by the Department, set forth separately for claims greater than $1,000 and for claims equal to or less than $1,000.

(c) Definitions.— In this section, the terms “hospital care”, “medical services”, “nursing home care”, “facilities of the Department”, and “non-Department facilities” have the meanings given those terms in [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1701).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–315, title VI, § 612(a)](/us/pl/114/315/tVI/s612/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1575](/us/stat/130/1575).)*
