---
title: "§ 3524. Consultation and layover requirements for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3524"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3524"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s115), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4828](/us/stat/108/4828).)"
---
# § 3524. Consultation and layover requirements for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions

##### § 3524. Consultation and layover requirements for, and effective date of, proclaimed actions

(1) the President has obtained advice regarding the proposed action from—

(A) the appropriate advisory committees established under [section 2155 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2155), and

(B) the International Trade Commission;

(2) the President has submitted a report to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate that sets forth—

(A) the action proposed to be proclaimed and the reasons for such actions, and

(B) the advice obtained under paragraph (1);

(3) a period of 60 calendar days, beginning with the first day on which the President has met the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) with respect to such action, has expired; and

(4) the President has consulted with such committees regarding the proposed action during the period referred to in paragraph (3).

*([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s115), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4828](/us/stat/108/4828).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4809](/us/stat/108/4809), known as the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3501 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3501) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

Functions of President under this section delegated to the United States Trade Representative by par. (4) of Proc. No. 6969, Jan. 27, 1997, 62 F.R. 4417.

Authority of President to perform certain functions in order to fulfill consultation and layover requirements set forth in this section delegated to United States Trade Representative by Memorandum of President of the United States, Sept. 29, 1995, 60 F.R. 52061, set out as a note under [section 3311 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3311).
