---
title: "§ 3534. Annual report on WTO"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3534"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3534"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 124](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s124), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4832](/us/stat/108/4832).)"
---
# § 3534. Annual report on WTO

##### § 3534. Annual report on WTO

(1) the major activities and work programs of the WTO, including the functions and activities of the committees established under article IV of the WTO Agreement, and the expenditures made by the WTO in connection with those activities and programs;

(2) the percentage of budgetary assessments by the WTO that were accounted for by each WTO member country, including the United States;

(3) the total number of personnel employed or retained by the Secretariat of the WTO, and the number of professional, administrative, and support staff of the WTO;

(4) for each personnel category described in paragraph (3), the number of citizens of each country, and the average salary of the personnel, in that category;

(5) each report issued by a panel or the Appellate Body in a dispute settlement proceeding regarding Federal or State law, and any efforts by the Trade Representative to provide for implementation of the recommendations contained in a report that is adverse to the United States;

(6) each proceeding before a panel or the Appellate Body that was initiated during that fiscal year regarding Federal or State law, the status of the proceeding, and the matter at issue;

(7) the status of consultations with any State whose law was the subject of a report adverse to the United States that was issued by a panel or the Appellate Body; and

(8) any progress achieved in increasing the transparency of proceedings of the Ministerial Conference and the General Council, and of dispute settlement proceedings conducted pursuant to the Dispute Settlement Understanding.

*([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 124](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s124), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4832](/us/stat/108/4832).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date on which the WTO Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), see [section 130 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s130), set out as a note under [section 3531 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3531).
