---
title: "§ 11412. Making surplus personal property available to nonprofit agencies"
identifier: "USC-T42-S11412"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section11412"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–77, title V, § 502](/us/pl/100/77/tV/s502), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 510](/us/stat/101/510).)"
---
# § 11412. Making surplus personal property available to nonprofit agencies

##### § 11412. Making surplus personal property available to nonprofit agencies

(a) Omitted

(b) Requirement for notification Within 90 days after July 22, 1987, the Administrator of General Services shall require each State agency administering a State plan under section 549(a)–(e) of title 40 to make generally available information about surplus personal property which may be used in the provision of food, shelter, or other services to homeless individuals.

(c) Costs Surplus personal property identified pursuant to this section shall be made available to providers of assistance to homeless individuals by a State agency distributing such property at (1) a nominal cost to such organization or (2) at no cost when the Administrator agrees to reimburse the State agency for the costs of care and handling of such property.

*([Pub. L. 100–77, title V, § 502](/us/pl/100/77/tV/s502), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 510](/us/stat/101/510).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 502 of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s502). Subsec. (a) of section 502 amended section 203(j)(3)(B) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, which was classified to section 484(j)(3)(B) of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and was repealed and reenacted as [section 549(c)(3)(B) of Title 40](/us/usc/t40/s549/c/3/B), Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304.

In subsec (b), “section 549(a)–(e) of title 40” substituted for “203(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.
