---
title: "§ 5307. Wage and labor standards"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–638, § 7](/us/pl/93/638/s7), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/88/2205); [Pub. L. 103–413, title I, § 102(3)](/us/pl/103/413/tI/s102/3), (4), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4251](/us/stat/108/4251).)"
---
# § 5307. Wage and labor standards

##### § 5307. Wage and labor standards

(a) Similar construction in locality All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors (excluding tribes and tribal organizations) in the construction, alteration, or repair, including painting or decorating of buildings or other facilities in connection with contracts or grants entered into pursuant to this chapter, shall be paid wages at not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40. With respect to construction, alteration, or repair work to which the Act of March 3, 1921 11 See References in Text note below. is applicable under the terms of this section, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14, of 1950, and [section 3145 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s3145).

(b) Preference requirements for wages and grants Any contract, subcontract, grant, or subgrant pursuant to this chapter, the Act of April 16, 1934 ([48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596)), as amended [[25 U.S.C. 5342](/us/usc/t25/s5342) et seq.], or any other Act authorizing Federal contracts with or grants to Indian organizations or for the benefit of Indians, shall require that to the greatest extent feasible—

(1) preferences and opportunities for training and employment in connection with the administration of such contracts or grants shall be given to Indians; and

(2) preference in the award of subcontracts and subgrants in connection with the administration of such contracts or grants shall be given to Indian organizations and to Indian-owned economic enterprises as defined in [section 1452 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1452).

(c) Self-determination contracts Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, with respect to any self-determination contract, or portion of a self-determination contract, that is intended to benefit one tribe, the tribal employment or contract preference laws adopted by such tribe shall govern with respect to the administration of the contract or portion of the contract.

*([Pub. L. 93–638, § 7](/us/pl/93/638/s7), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2205](/us/stat/88/2205); [Pub. L. 103–413, title I, § 102(3)](/us/pl/103/413/tI/s102/3), (4), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4251](/us/stat/108/4251).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/88/2203), known as the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

Act of March 3, 1921, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the [act of March 3, 1931, ch. 411](/us/act/1931-03-03/ch411), [46 Stat. 1494](/us/stat/46/1494), known as the Davis Bacon Act, which was classified generally to sections 276a to 276a–5 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and was repealed and reenacted as sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by [Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), §§ 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1062](/us/stat/116/1062), 1304.

Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950, referred to in subsec. (a), is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Act of April 16, 1934, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act Apr. 16, 1934, ch. 147](/us/act/1934-04-16/ch147), [48 Stat. 596](/us/stat/48/596), popularly known as the Johnson-O’Malley Act, which is classified generally to section 5342 et seq. of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 450e of this title](/us/usc/t25/s450e) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

In subsec. (a), “sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40” substituted for “the Davis-Bacon Act of March 3, 1931 ([46 Stat. 1494](/us/stat/46/1494)), as amended” and “[section 3145 of title 40](/us/usc/t40/s3145)” substituted for “[section 2 of the Act of June 13, 1934](/us/act/1934-06-13/s2) ([48 Stat. 948](/us/stat/48/948), [40 U.S.C. 276c](/us/usc/t40/s276c))” on authority of [Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c)](/us/pl/107/217/s5/c), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1303](/us/stat/116/1303), the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–413, § 102(3)](/us/pl/103/413/s102/3), substituted “or subcontractors (excluding tribes and tribal organizations)” for “of subcontractors”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 103–413, § 102(4)](/us/pl/103/413/s102/4), added subsec. (c).
