---
title: "§ 2073. Transfer of personnel, etc., to Service"
identifier: "USC-T19-S2073"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section2073"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 348, § 3](/us/act/1927-03-03/ch348/s3), [44 Stat. 1382](/us/stat/44/1382); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 10](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s10), [68 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/68/1229).)"
---
# § 2073. Transfer of personnel, etc., to Service

##### § 2073. Transfer of personnel, etc., to Service

(a) Repealed. [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 10](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s10), [68 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/68/1229).

(b) The records, property (including office equipment), and personnel of the Division of Customs are transferred to the United States Customs Service.

*([Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 348, § 3](/us/act/1927-03-03/ch348/s3), [44 Stat. 1382](/us/stat/44/1382); [Sept. 3, 1954, ch. 1263, § 10](/us/act/1954-09-03/ch1263/s10), [68 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/68/1229).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 281b of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s281b) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5 by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

Subsection (c) of section 3 of act March 3, 1927, abolished the Division of Customs and offices of directors and assistant directors of customs and Special Agency Service of the Customs.

#### Amendments

1954—Subsec. (a). Act Sept. 3, 1954, repealed subsec. (a) which related to the delegation of duty to Commissioner of Customs by Secretary of the Treasury.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Change of Name

“United States Customs Service” substituted in text for “Bureau of Customs” pursuant to Treasury Department Order 165–23, Apr. 4, 1973, eff. Aug. 1, 1973, 38 F.R. 13037. See, also, [section 308 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s308), Money and Finance.

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of all officers of Department of the Treasury and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Treasury, with power vested in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280), 1281, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
