---
title: "§ 3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure, certification, or national tests"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3315B"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3315B"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–154, § 5(a)](/us/pl/116/154/s5/a), Aug. 8, 2020, [134 Stat. 691](/us/stat/134/691).)"
---
# § 3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure, certification, or national tests

##### § 3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure, certification, or national tests

(a) In General.— An individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter shall also be entitled to payment for a covered preparatory course.

(b) Amount.— The amount of educational assistance payable under this chapter for a covered preparatory course is the lesser of—

(1) the fee charged for the covered preparatory course; or

(2) the amount of entitlement available to the individual under this chapter at the time of payment for the covered preparatory course under this section.

(c) Charge Against Entitlement.— The number of months of entitlement charged an individual under this chapter for a covered preparatory course shall be pro-rated based on the actual amount of the fee charged for the covered preparatory course relative to the rate for 1 month payable—

(1) for the academic year beginning on August 1, 2020, $2,042; or

(2) for an academic year beginning on any subsequent August 1, the amount for the previous academic year beginning on August 1 under this subsection, as increased by the percentage increase equal to the most recent percentage increase determined under section 3015(h).

(d) Covered Preparatory Course Defined.— In this section, the term “covered preparatory course” means a course—

(1) for a licensing or certification test that is required or used to enter into, maintain, or advance in employment in a predetermined and identified vocation or profession; and

(2) that has been approved by the State approving agency concerned.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–154, § 5(a)](/us/pl/116/154/s5/a), Aug. 8, 2020, [134 Stat. 691](/us/stat/134/691).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 116–154, § 5(d)](/us/pl/116/154/s5/d), Aug. 8, 2020, [134 Stat. 692](/us/stat/134/692), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect on August 1, 2021.”
