---
title: "§ 11243. Authority to make grants for research, evaluation, demonstration, and service projects"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11243"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11243"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 343](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s343), as added [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(C)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/C), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5023](/us/stat/106/5023); amended [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(h)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/h), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/113/1038); [Pub. L. 108–96, title I, § 113](/us/pl/108/96/tI/s113), Oct. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1170](/us/stat/117/1170); [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5](/us/pl/110/378/s5), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4069](/us/stat/122/4069); [Pub. L. 11"
---
# § 11243. Authority to make grants for research, evaluation, demonstration, and service projects

##### § 11243. Authority to make grants for research, evaluation, demonstration, and service projects

(a) Authorization; purposes The Secretary may make grants to States, localities, and private entities (and combinations of such entities) to carry out research, evaluation, demonstration, and service projects regarding activities under this subchapter designed to increase knowledge concerning, and to improve services for, runaway youth and homeless youth.

(b) Selection factors; priority In selecting among applications for grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to proposed projects relating to—

(1) youth who repeatedly leave and remain away from their homes;

(2) transportation of runaway youth and homeless youth in connection with services authorized to be provided under this subchapter;

(3) the special needs of runaway youth and homeless youth programs in rural areas;

(4) the special needs of programs that place runaway youth and homeless youth in host family homes;

(5) staff training in—

(A) the behavioral and emotional effects of sexual abuse and assault, severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in section 7102(9) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 22), and sex trafficking (as defined in section 7102(10) 1 of title 22);

(B) responding to youth who are showing effects of sexual abuse and assault, severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in section 7102(9) ^1 of title 22), or sex trafficking (as defined in section 7102(10) ^1 of title 22); and

(C) agency-wide strategies for working with runaway and homeless youth who have been sexually victimized, including such youth who are victims of trafficking (as defined in section 7102(15) ^1 of title 22);

(6) innovative methods of developing resources that enhance the establishment or operation of runaway and homeless youth centers;

(7) training for runaway youth and homeless youth, and staff training, related to preventing and obtaining treatment for infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV);

(8) increasing access to quality health care (including behavioral health care) for runaway youth and homeless youth;

(9) increasing access to education for runaway youth and homeless youth, including access to educational and workforce programs to achieve outcomes such as decreasing secondary school dropout rates, increasing rates of attaining a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent, or increasing placement and retention in postsecondary education or advanced workforce training programs; and

(10) providing programs, including innovative programs, that assist youth in obtaining and maintaining safe and stable housing, and which may include programs with supportive services that continue after the youth complete the remainder of the programs.

(c) Applicant experience and diversity In selecting among applicants for grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) give priority to applicants who have experience working with runaway or homeless youth; and

(2) ensure that the applicants selected—

(A) represent diverse geographic regions of the United States; and

(B) carry out projects that serve diverse populations of runaway or homeless youth.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 343](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s343), as added [Pub. L. 102–586, § 3(g)(1)(C)](/us/pl/102/586/s3/g/1/C), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5023](/us/stat/106/5023); amended [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(h)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/h), Oct. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1038](/us/stat/113/1038); [Pub. L. 108–96, title I, § 113](/us/pl/108/96/tI/s113), Oct. 10, 2003, [117 Stat. 1170](/us/stat/117/1170); [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5](/us/pl/110/378/s5), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4069](/us/stat/122/4069); [Pub. L. 114–22, title II, § 201(1)](/us/pl/114/22/tII/s201/1), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 248](/us/stat/129/248).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 7102(9), (10), and (15) of title 22, referred to in subsec. (b)(5), was redesignated section 7102(11), (12), and (17), respectively, of title 22 by [Pub. L. 115–427, § 2(1)](/us/pl/115/427/s2/1), Jan. 9, 2019, [132 Stat. 5503](/us/stat/132/5503).

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5714–23 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5714–23), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2015—Subsec. (b)(5)(A). [Pub. L. 114–22, § 201(1)(A)](/us/pl/114/22/s201/1/A), inserted “, severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in [section 7102(9) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102/9)), and sex trafficking (as defined in [section 7102(10) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102/10))” before semicolon at end.

Subsec. (b)(5)(B). [Pub. L. 114–22, § 201(1)(B)](/us/pl/114/22/s201/1/B), inserted “, severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in [section 7102(9) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102/9)), or sex trafficking (as defined in [section 7102(10) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102/10))” before “; and” at end.

Subsec. (b)(5)(C). [Pub. L. 114–22, § 201(1)(C)](/us/pl/114/22/s201/1/C), inserted “, including such youth who are victims of trafficking (as defined in [section 7102(15) of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102/15))” before semicolon at end.

2008—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/378/s5/1/A), substituted “priority” for “special consideration” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(8). [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5(1)(B)](/us/pl/110/378/s5/1/B), substituted “to quality health” for “to health” and “behavioral health care” for “mental health care” and struck out “and” at end.

Subsec. (b)(9). [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5(1)(C)](/us/pl/110/378/s5/1/C), substituted “, including access to educational and workforce programs to achieve outcomes such as decreasing secondary school dropout rates, increasing rates of attaining a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent, or increasing placement and retention in postsecondary education or advanced workforce training programs; and” for period at end.

Subsec. (b)(10). [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5(1)(D)](/us/pl/110/378/s5/1/D), added par. (10).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 110–378, § 5(2)](/us/pl/110/378/s5/2), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In selecting among applicants for grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants who have experience working with runaway youth or homeless youth.”

2003—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–96](/us/pl/108/96) inserted “regarding activities under this subchapter” after “service projects”.

1999—[Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(h)(1)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/h/1), inserted “evaluation,” after “research,” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(h)(2)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/h/2), inserted “evaluation,” after “research,”.

Subsec. (b)(2) to (10). [Pub. L. 106–71, § 3(h)(3)](/us/pl/106/71/s3/h/3), redesignated pars. (3) to (10) as (2) to (9), respectively, and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “home-based and street-based services for, and outreach to, runaway youth and homeless youth;”.
