---
title: "§ 1728. Findings regarding emergency food assistance"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1728"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1728"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–473, title III, § 302](/us/pl/98/473/tIII/s302), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2194](/us/stat/98/2194).)"
---
# § 1728. Findings regarding emergency food assistance

##### § 1728. Findings regarding emergency food assistance

(1) acute food crises continue to cause loss of life, severe malnutrition, and general human suffering in many areas of the Third World, especially in sub-Saharan Africa;

(2) the United States continues to respond to these needs, as a reflection of its humanitarian concern for the people of the Third World, with emergency food and other necessary assistance to alleviate the suffering of those affected by severe food shortages;

(3) the timely provision of food and other necessary assistance to those in need is of paramount importance if the worst effects of such food crises are to be mitigated; and

(4) the ability of the United States to provide food and other necessary assistance on a timely basis, and to ensure that such assistance is distributed to those in need, should be enhanced in order to better enable the United States to help those affected by severe food shortages.

*([Pub. L. 98–473, title III, § 302](/us/pl/98/473/tIII/s302), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2194](/us/stat/98/2194).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the President’s Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1984, and not as part of the Food for Peace Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 98–473, title III, § 301](/us/pl/98/473/tIII/s301), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2194](/us/stat/98/2194), provided that: “This title [enacting this subchapter and amending [section 1723 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1723)] may be cited as the ‘President’s Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1984’.”
