---
title: "§ 726. Acts prohibited in refuge; commercial fishing"
identifier: "USC-T16-S726"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section726"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 7, 1924, ch. 346](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch346), §§ 6, 7, [43 Stat. 651](/us/stat/43/651); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), (f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)"
---
# § 726. Acts prohibited in refuge; commercial fishing

##### § 726. Acts prohibited in refuge; commercial fishing

(a) Enter the refuge for any purpose; or

(b) Disturb, injure, kill, or remove, or attempt to disturb, injure, kill, or remove any wild bird, game animal, fur-bearing animal, fish, or other aquatic-animal life, on the refuge; or

(c) Remove from the refuge, or injure or destroy thereon any flower, plant, tree, or other natural growth, or the nest or egg of any wild bird; or

(d) Injure or destroy any notice, sign board, fence, building, or other property of the United States thereon.Commercial fishing may, however, be conducted in the waters of this refuge under regulation by the Secretary of the Interior.

*([June 7, 1924, ch. 346](/us/act/1924-06-07/ch346), §§ 6, 7, [43 Stat. 651](/us/stat/43/651); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(e), (f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is a combination of sections 6 and 7 of act June 7, 1924, the last sentence only being from section 7.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior under this chapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 725 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s725).

Transfer of functions of Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of Commerce to Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, see Transfer of Functions note set out under [section 723 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s723).
