---
title: "§ 3005. Savings clause"
identifier: "USC-T43-S3005"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section3005"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3106](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3106), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2517](/us/stat/134/2517).)"
---
# § 3005. Savings clause

##### § 3005. Savings clause

Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall continue to manage public lands under the principles of multiple use and sustained yield in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ([43 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t43/s1701) et seq.) or the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 ([16 U.S.C. 1600](/us/usc/t16/s1600) et seq.), respectively, including for due consideration of mineral and nonrenewable energy-related projects and other nonrenewable energy uses, for the purposes of land use planning, permit processing, and conducting environmental reviews.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3106](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3106), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2517](/us/stat/134/2517).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle B (§§ 3101–3106) of title III of div. Z of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2513](/us/stat/134/2513), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.

The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 94–579](/us/pl/94/579), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2743](/us/stat/90/2743), which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1701) and Tables.

The Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–378](/us/pl/93/378), Aug. 17, 1974, [88 Stat. 476](/us/stat/88/476), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1600 et seq.) of chapter 36 of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1600 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1600) and Tables.
