---
title: "§ 3342. Transactions requiring services of State certified appraiser"
identifier: "USC-T12-S3342"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section3342"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1113](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1113), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 514](/us/stat/103/514); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/e/2), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/124/2191).)"
---
# § 3342. Transactions requiring services of State certified appraiser

##### § 3342. Transactions requiring services of State certified appraiser

(1) a State certified appraiser shall be required for all federally related transactions having a value of $1,000,000 or more; and

(2) 1-to-4 unit, single family residential appraisals may be performed by State licensed appraisers unless the size and complexity requires a State certified appraiser, where a complex 1-to-4 unit single family residential appraisal means an appraisal for which the property to be appraised, the form of ownership, the property characteristics, or the market conditions are atypical.

*([Pub. L. 101–73, title XI, § 1113](/us/pl/101/73/tXI/s1113), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 514](/us/stat/103/514); [Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1473(e)(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1473/e/2), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2191](/us/stat/124/2191).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) inserted “, where a complex 1-to-4 unit single family residential appraisal means an appraisal for which the property to be appraised, the form of ownership, the property characteristics, or the market conditions are atypical” before the period.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the date on which final regulations implementing that amendment take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as a note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.
