---
title: "§ 334. Limitation on revision of equal employment opportunity regulations"
identifier: "USC-T47-S334"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section334"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 334, as added [Pub. L. 102–385, § 22(f)](/us/pl/102/385/s22/f), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1499](/us/stat/106/1499).)"
---
# § 334. Limitation on revision of equal employment opportunity regulations

##### § 334. Limitation on revision of equal employment opportunity regulations

(a) Limitation Except as specifically provided in this section, the Commission shall not revise—

(1) the regulations concerning equal employment opportunity as in effect on September 1, 1992 (47 C.F.R. 73.2080) as such regulations apply to television broadcast station licensees and permittees; or

(2) the forms used by such licensees and permittees to report pertinent employment data to the Commission.

(b) Midterm review The Commission shall revise the regulations described in subsection (a) to require a midterm review of television broadcast station licensees’ employment practices and to require the Commission to inform such licensees of necessary improvements in recruitment practices identified as a consequence of such review.

(c) Authority to make technical revisions The Commission may revise the regulations described in subsection (a) to make nonsubstantive technical or clerical revisions in such regulations as necessary to reflect changes in technology, terminology, or Commission organization.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 334, as added [Pub. L. 102–385, § 22(f)](/us/pl/102/385/s22/f), Oct. 5, 1992, [106 Stat. 1499](/us/stat/106/1499).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 60 days after Oct. 5, 1992, see [section 28 of Pub. L. 102–385](/us/pl/102/385/s28), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 325 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s325).
