---
title: "§ 1600j. Federal leases"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1600j"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1600j"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–450, § 13](/us/pl/99/450/s13), Oct. 8, 1986, [100 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/100/1135).)"
---
# § 1600j. Federal leases

##### § 1600j. Federal leases

(a) Lease of lands owned in whole or in part by United States within Floodway; determination of consistency with operation and maintenance No lease of lands owned in whole or in part by the United States and within the Colorado River Floodway shall be granted after October 8, 1986, unless the Secretary determines that such lease would be consistent with the operation and maintenance of the Colorado River Floodway.

(b) Extension of existing leases; minimization of inconsistency with operation and maintenance of Floodway No existing lease of lands owned in whole or in part by the United States and within the Colorado River Floodway shall be extended beyond October 8, 1986, or the stated expiration date of its current term, whichever is later, unless the lessee agrees to take reasonable and prudent steps determined to be necessary by the Secretary to minimize the inconsistency of operation under such lease with the operation and maintenance of the Colorado River Floodway.

(c) Lease of lands owned in whole or in part by United States between Hoover Dam and Davis Dam No lease of lands owned in whole or part by the United States between Hoover Dam and Davis Dam below elevation 655.0 feet on Lake Mohave shall be granted unless the Secretary determines that such lease would be consistent with the operation of Lake Mohave.

(d) Lease operations on Indian lands The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to lease operations on Indian lands pursuant to a lease providing for activities which are exempted under [section 1600e of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1600e).

(e) Lands held in trust by United States for benefit of Indian tribes or individuals Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to lands held in trust by the United States for the benefit of any Indian tribe or individual with respect to any lease where capital improvements, and operation and maintenance costs are not provided for by Federal financial assistance if the lessee, tribe, or individual has provided insurance or other security for the benefit of the Secretary sufficient to insure against all reasonably forseeable,11 So in original. Probably should be “foreseeable,”. direct, and consequential damages to the property of the tribe, private persons, and the United States, which may result from the proposed lease.

*([Pub. L. 99–450, § 13](/us/pl/99/450/s13), Oct. 8, 1986, [100 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/100/1135).)*
