---
title: "§ 4167. Reports to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T25-S4167"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section4167"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–330, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/104/330/tIV/s407), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4041](/us/stat/110/4041).)"
---
# § 4167. Reports to Congress

##### § 4167. Reports to Congress

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after the conclusion of each fiscal year in which assistance under this chapter is made available, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report that contains—

(1) a description of the progress made in accomplishing the objectives of this chapter;

(2) a summary of the use of funds available under this chapter during the preceding fiscal year; and

(3) a description of the aggregate outstanding loan guarantees under subchapter VI.

(b) Related reports The Secretary may require recipients of grant amounts under this chapter to submit to the Secretary such reports and other information as may be necessary in order for the Secretary to make the report required by subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 104–330, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/104/330/tIV/s407), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4041](/us/stat/110/4041).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4016](/us/stat/110/4016), known as the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4101) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1997, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330/s107), set out as a note under [section 4101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4101).
