---
title: "§ 120104. Evaluation"
identifier: "USC-T54-S120104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section120104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–339, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/339/s2/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6161](/us/stat/136/6161).)"
---
# § 120104. Evaluation

##### § 120104. Evaluation

(a) In General.— At reasonable and appropriate intervals, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary may—

(1) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of a National Heritage Area in accordance with subsection (b); and

(2) prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report that includes recommendations for the continued role of the Service with respect to each National Heritage Area in accordance with subsection (c).

(b) Components.— An evaluation under subsection (a)(1) shall—

(1) assess the progress of the applicable local coordinating entity of a National Heritage Area with respect to—

(A) accomplishing the purposes of the applicable National Heritage Area; and

(B) achieving the goals and objectives of the management plan;

(2) analyze Federal, State, local, Tribal government, and private investments in the National Heritage Area to determine the leverage and impact of the investments; and

(3) review the management structure, partnership relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area for purposes of identifying the critical components for sustainability of the National Heritage Area.

(c) Recommendations.— Each report under subsection (a)(2) shall include—

(1) if the report contains a recommendation of the Secretary that Federal funding for the applicable National Heritage Area should be continued, an analysis of—

(A) any means by which that Federal funding may be reduced or eliminated over time; and

(B) the appropriate time period necessary to achieve the recommended reduction or elimination of Federal funding; or

(2) if the report contains a recommendation of the Secretary that Federal funding for the applicable National Heritage Area should be eliminated, a description of potential impacts on conservation, interpretation, and sustainability in the applicable National Heritage Area.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–339, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/339/s2/a), Jan. 5, 2023, [136 Stat. 6161](/us/stat/136/6161).)*
