---
title: "§ 1735f–12. Assurance of adequate processing of applications for loan and mortgage insurance"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1735f–12"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1735f–12"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title V, § 534, as added [Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 418](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s418), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1912](/us/stat/101/1912); amended [Pub. L. 102–550, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tV/s512/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3786](/us/stat/106/3786).)"
---
# § 1735f–12. Assurance of adequate processing of applications for loan and mortgage insurance

##### § 1735f–12. Assurance of adequate processing of applications for loan and mortgage insurance

(a) State offices In order to ensure the adequate processing of applications for insurance of loans and mortgages under this chapter, the Secretary shall maintain not less than one office in each State to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

(b) Expedited procedure for RTC properties To assist the Resolution Trust Corporation in disposing of the property to which it acquires title and to ensure the timely processing of applications for insurance of loans and mortgages under this chapter that will be used to purchase multifamily residential property from the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Secretary shall establish an expedited procedure for considering such applications.

*([June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), title V, § 534, as added [Pub. L. 100–242, title IV, § 418](/us/pl/100/242/tIV/s418), Feb. 5, 1988, [101 Stat. 1912](/us/stat/101/1912); amended [Pub. L. 102–550, title V, § 512(a)](/us/pl/102/550/tV/s512/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3786](/us/stat/106/3786).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Regulations

[Pub. L. 102–550, title V, § 512(b)](/us/pl/102/550/tV/s512/b), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3786](/us/stat/106/3786), provided that: “The procedure referred to in the amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall be established through interim and final regulations issued by the Secretary. The Secretary shall issue interim regulations implementing the procedure not later than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 1992], which shall be effective upon issuance. The Secretary shall issue final regulations after notice and opportunity for public comment pursuant to the provisions of [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), United States Code (notwithstanding subsections (a)(2), (b)(B), and (d)(3) of such section).”
