---
title: "§ 3776. Actions on claims"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3776"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3776"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1416](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1416), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 487](/us/stat/93/487); [Pub. L. 99–209, § 5](/us/pl/99/209/s5), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/99/1717); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. C, title XXXV, § 3529(6)](/us/pl/104/106/dC/tXXXV/s3529/6), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 642](/us/stat/110/642); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXV, § 3543(b)](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXV/s3543/b), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2072](/us/stat/111/2072); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXV"
---
# § 3776. Actions on claims

##### § 3776. Actions on claims

Subject to [section 3779(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3779/b), a claimant for damages pursuant to section 3771(a) or 3772 of this title who considers himself aggrieved by the findings, determination, or award of the Commission in reference to his claim may bring an action on the claim against the Commission in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Subject to the provisions of this part and of applicable regulations issued pursuant to [section 3811 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3811) relative to navigation of the Panama Canal and adjacent waters, such actions shall proceed and be heard by the court without a jury according to the principles of law and rules of practice obtaining generally in like cases between a private party and a department or agency of the United States. Any judgment obtained against the Commission in an action under this subpart may be paid only out of money allotted for the maintenance and operation of the Panama Canal. An action for damages cognizable under this section shall not otherwise lie against the United States or the Commission, nor in any other court, than as provided in this section; nor may it lie against any officer or employee of the United States or of the Commission. Any action on a claim under this section shall be barred unless the action is brought within 180 days after the date on which the Commission mails to the claimant written notification of the Commission’s final determination with respect to the claim or by May 17, 1998, whichever is later. Attorneys appointed by the Commission shall represent the Commission in any action arising under this subpart.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1416](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1416), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 487](/us/stat/93/487); [Pub. L. 99–209, § 5](/us/pl/99/209/s5), Dec. 23, 1985, [99 Stat. 1717](/us/stat/99/1717); [Pub. L. 104–106, div. C, title XXXV, § 3529(6)](/us/pl/104/106/dC/tXXXV/s3529/6), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 642](/us/stat/110/642); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. C, title XXXV, § 3543(b)](/us/pl/105/85/dC/tXXXV/s3543/b), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 2072](/us/stat/111/2072); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. C, title XXXV](/us/pl/105/261/dC/tXXXV), §§ 3509(a)(3), 3512(a)(5), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2270](/us/stat/112/2270), 2271.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1998—[Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) substituted “Subject to [section 3779(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3779/b), a claimant” for “A claimant” in first sentence and “by May 17, 1998” for “November 18, 1997”.

1997—[Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85) substituted “180 days” for “one year” and “claim or November 18, 1997,” for “claim, or within one year after December 23, 1985,”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–106](/us/pl/104/106) struck out “appropriated or” after “out of money” in third sentence.

1985—[Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209) substituted “section 3771(a) or 3772 of this title” for “[section 3771 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3771)”, substituted “may be paid only out out money” for “shall be paid out of any moneys”, and inserted provisions that any action on a claim under this section shall be barred unless the action is brought within one year after the date on which the Commission mails to the claimant written notification of the Commission’s final determination with respect to the claim, or within one year after Dec. 23, 1985, whichever is later, and that attorneys appointed by the Commission shall represent the Commission in any action arising under this subpart.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209) applicable to any claim arising on or after Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 7(a) of Pub. L. 99–209](/us/pl/99/209/s7/a), set out as a note under [section 3771 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3771).
