---
title: "§ 152411. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T36-S152411"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section152411"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–474, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/106/474/tII/s201/a), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2094](/us/stat/114/2094); amended [Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/1/A), (4), Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3726](/us/stat/122/3726), 3727; [Pub. L. 114–217, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/217/s2/b/1), July 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 840](/us/stat/130/840).)"
---
# § 152411. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 152411. Authorization of appropriations

(a) Authorization.— There are authorized to be appropriated to the corporation for the first fiscal year beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this chapter and each succeeding fiscal year through fiscal year 2026 an amount not to exceed the lesser of $1,000,000 or the amount of private contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the corporation by private persons and State and local governments.

(b) Limitation Related to Administrative Expenses.— Amounts authorized under this section may not be used by the corporation for management and general or fundraising expenses as reported to the Internal Revenue Service as part of an annual information return required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–474, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/106/474/tII/s201/a), Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2094](/us/stat/114/2094); amended [Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/1/A), (4), Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3726](/us/stat/122/3726), 3727; [Pub. L. 114–217, § 2(b)(1)](/us/pl/114/217/s2/b/1), July 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 840](/us/stat/130/840).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 106–474](/us/pl/106/474), which was approved Nov. 9, 2000.

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–217](/us/pl/114/217) substituted “through fiscal year 2026 an amount not to exceed the lesser of $1,000,000 or” for “through fiscal year 2016 an amount not to exceed”.

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/1/A), substituted “for the first fiscal year beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this chapter and each succeeding fiscal year through fiscal year 2016” for “for each of the first 7 fiscal years beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this chapter”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(4)](/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/4), amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Except as permitted under section 152407, amounts authorized under this section may not be used by the corporation for administrative expenses of the corporation, including salaries, travel, transportation, and overhead expenses.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/1/B), Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3726](/us/stat/122/3726), provided that: “The amendment made by subparagraph (A) [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the National Recording Preservation Act of 2000 [[Pub. L. 106–474](/us/pl/106/474)].”
