---
title: "§ 80101. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S80101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section80101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1346](/us/stat/108/1346).)"
---
# § 80101. Definitions

##### § 80101. Definitions

(1) “consignee” means the person named in a bill of lading as the person to whom the goods are to be delivered.

(2) “consignor” means the person named in a bill of lading as the person from whom the goods have been received for shipment.

(3) “goods” means merchandise or personal property that has been, is being, or will be transported.

(4) “holder” means a person having possession of, and a property right in, a bill of lading.

(5) “order” means an order by indorsement on a bill of lading.

(6) “purchase” includes taking by mortgage or pledge.

(7) “State” means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and a territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1346](/us/stat/108/1346).)*

In this chapter, the words “negotiable bill of lading” are substituted for “order bill”, and the words “nonnegotiable bill of lading” are substituted for “straight bill”, for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

In this section, before clause (1), the words “unless the context of subject matter otherwise requires” are omitted as unnecessary because of the restatement. The words “ ‘Action’ includes counterclaim, set-off, and suit in equity” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “ ‘Bill’ means bill of lading, governed by this chapter” are omitted because of section 80102 of the revised title. In clauses (1), (2), and (4), the words “ ‘Person’ includes a corporation or partnership, or two or more persons having a joint or common interest” are omitted because of 1:1. In clause (3), the words “personal property” are substituted for “chattels” for clarity and consistency. The words “is being” are substituted for “in course of” for clarity. In clause (7), the words “ ‘State’ means a State of the United States” are substituted for “ ‘State’ includes” for clarity and consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the Code. The word “possession” is substituted for “insular possession, or isthmian possession” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 80101 | 49 App.:122. | Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 415, § 42, 39 Stat. 545. |
