---
title: "§ 10288. Due diligence in paying benefit claims"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10288"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10288"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1206](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1206), as added [Pub. L. 115–36, § 4](/us/pl/115/36/s4), June 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 852](/us/stat/131/852); amended [Pub. L. 117–61, § 4](/us/pl/117/61/s4), Nov. 18, 2021, [135 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/135/1478).)"
---
# § 10288. Due diligence in paying benefit claims

##### § 10288. Due diligence in paying benefit claims

(a) In general The Bureau, with all due diligence, shall expeditiously attempt to obtain the information and documentation necessary to adjudicate a benefit claim filed under this subchapter, including a claim for financial assistance under part B.

(b) Sufficient information unavailable If a benefit claim filed under this subchapter, including a claim for financial assistance under part B, is unable to be adjudicated by the Bureau because of a lack of information or documentation from a third party, such as a public agency, and such information is not readily available to the claimant, the Bureau—

(1) may use available investigative tools, including subpoenas, to—

(A) adjudicate or to expedite the processing of the benefit claim, if the Bureau deems such use to be necessary to adjudicate or conducive to expediting the adjudication of such claim; and

(B) obtain information or documentation from third parties, including public agencies, if the Bureau deems such use to be necessary to adjudicate or conducive to expediting the adjudication of a claim; and

(2) may not abandon the benefit claim unless the Bureau has used investigative tools, including subpoenas, to obtain the information or documentation deemed necessary to adjudicate such claim by the Bureau under subparagraph (1)(B).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1206](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1206), as added [Pub. L. 115–36, § 4](/us/pl/115/36/s4), June 2, 2017, [131 Stat. 852](/us/stat/131/852); amended [Pub. L. 117–61, § 4](/us/pl/117/61/s4), Nov. 18, 2021, [135 Stat. 1478](/us/stat/135/1478).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796c–3 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796c–3), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61) substituted “the Bureau—” and pars. (1) and (2) for “the Bureau may not abandon the benefit claim unless the Bureau has utilized the investigative tools available to the Bureau to obtain the necessary information or documentation, including subpoenas.”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61) effective Nov. 18, 2021, and applicable to any matter pending, before the Bureau or otherwise, on Nov. 18, 2021, or filed (consistent with pre-existing effective dates) or accruing after that date, see section 8(a) and (b)(2) of [Pub. L. 117–61](/us/pl/117/61), set out in a note under [section 10281 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10281).

#### Effective Date

Section effective June 2, 2017, and applicable to any benefit claim or application under this subchapter pending before the Bureau of Justice Assistance on such date or received by the Bureau on or after such date, see [section 6 of Pub. L. 115–36](/us/pl/115/36/s6), set out as an Effective Date of 2017 Amendment note under [section 10282 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10282).
