---
title: "§ 9703. Advancing a negotiated solution to Venezuela’s crisis"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title I, § 113](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tI/s113), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/133/3031).)"
---
# § 9703. Advancing a negotiated solution to Venezuela’s crisis

##### § 9703. Advancing a negotiated solution to Venezuela’s crisis

(a) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) direct, credible negotiations led by the Interim President of Venezuela and members of Venezuela’s democratically elected National Assembly—

(A) are supported by stakeholders in the international community that have recognized the Interim President of Venezuela;

(B) include the input and interests of Venezuelan civil society; and

(C) represent the best opportunity to reach a solution to the Venezuelan crisis that includes—

(i) holding a new presidential election that complies with international standards for a free, fair, and transparent electoral process;

(ii) ending Nicolás Maduro’s usurpation of presidential authorities;

(iii) restoring democracy and the rule of law;

(iv) freeing political prisoners; and

(v) facilitating the delivery of humanitarian aid;

(2) dialogue between the Maduro regime and representatives of the political opposition that commenced in October 2017, and were supported by the Governments of Mexico, of Chile, of Bolivia, and of Nicaragua, did not result in an agreement because the Maduro regime failed to credibly participate in the process; and

(3) negotiations between the Maduro regime and representatives of the political opposition that commenced in October 2016, and were supported by the Vatican, did not result in an agreement because the Maduro regime failed to credibly participate in the process.

(b) Policy It is the policy of the United States to support diplomatic engagement in order to advance a negotiated and peaceful solution to Venezuela’s political, economic, and humanitarian crisis that is described in subsection (a)(1).

*([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title I, § 113](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tI/s113), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/133/3031).)*
