---
title: "§ 2291l. Prioritization of efforts of the Department of State to combat international trafficking in covered synthetic drugs"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2291l"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2291l"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5552](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5552), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/136/3341).)"
---
# § 2291l. Prioritization of efforts of the Department of State to combat international trafficking in covered synthetic drugs

##### § 2291l. Prioritization of efforts of the Department of State to combat international trafficking in covered synthetic drugs

(a) In general The Secretary of State shall prioritize efforts of the Department of State to combat international trafficking of covered synthetic drugs by carrying out programs and activities to include the following:

(1) Supporting increased data collection by the United States and foreign countries through increased drug use surveys among populations, increased use of wastewater testing where appropriate, and multilateral sharing of that data.

(2) Engaging in increased consultation and partnership with international drug agencies, including the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, regulatory agencies in foreign countries, and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.

(3) Carrying out programs to provide technical assistance and equipment, as appropriate, to strengthen the capacity of foreign law enforcement agencies with respect to covered synthetic drugs, as required by [section 2291m of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2291m).

(4) Carrying out exchange programs for governmental and nongovernmental personnel in the United States and in foreign countries to provide educational and professional development on demand reduction matters relating to the illicit use of covered synthetic drugs and other drugs, as required by [section 2291n of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2291n).

(b) Report

(1) In general Not later than one year after December 23, 2022, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation of this section.

(2) Appropriate congressional committees defined In this subsection, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5552](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5552), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3341](/us/stat/136/3341).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Fighting Emerging Narcotics Through Additional Nations to Yield Lasting Results Act, also known as the FENTANYL Results Act, and also as part of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rule of Construction

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5557](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5557), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/136/3344), provided that: “Nothing in this subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 5551–5558) of title LV of div. E of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151)] or the amendments made by this subtitle shall be construed to affect the prioritization of extradition requests.”

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5558](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5558), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3344](/us/stat/136/3344), provided that: “In this subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 5551–5558) of title LV of div. E of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), see Short Title of 2022 Amendment note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151)]: “(1) Controlled substance; controlled substance analogue.—The terms ‘controlled substance’ and ‘controlled substance analogue’ have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 802](/us/usc/t21/s802)). “(2) Covered synthetic drug.—The term ‘covered synthetic drug’ means—“(A) a synthetic controlled substance or synthetic controlled substance analogue, including fentanyl or a fentanyl analogue; or “(B) a new psychoactive substance. “(3) New psychoactive substance.—The term ‘new psychoactive substance’ means a substance of abuse, or any preparation thereof, that—“(A) is not—“(i) included in any schedule as a controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t21/s801) et seq.); or “(ii) controlled by the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, done at New York March 30, 1961, or the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, done at Vienna February 21, 1971; “(B) is new or has reemerged on the illicit market; and “(C) poses a threat to the public health and safety.”
