---
title: "§ 1629f. Claims arising from contamination of transferred lands"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1629f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1629f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–203, § 40](/us/pl/92/203/s40), as added [Pub. L. 104–42, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/42/tI/s103), Nov. 2, 1995, [109 Stat. 354](/us/stat/109/354).)"
---
# § 1629f. Claims arising from contamination of transferred lands

##### § 1629f. Claims arising from contamination of transferred lands

(a) As used in this section the term “contaminant” means 11 So in original. Probably should be “means a”. hazardous substance harmful to public health or the environment, including friable asbestos.

(b) Within 18 months of November 2, 1995, and after consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, State of Alaska, and appropriate Alaska Native Corporations and organizations, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, a report addressing issues presented by the presence of contaminants on lands conveyed or prioritized for conveyance to such corporations pursuant to this chapter. Such report shall consist of—

(1) existing information concerning the nature and types of contaminants present on such lands prior to conveyance to Alaska Native Corporations;

(2) existing information identifying to the extent practicable the existence and availability of potentially responsible parties for the removal or remediation of the effects of such contaminants;

(3) identification of existing remedies;

(4) recommendations for any additional legislation that the Secretary concludes is necessary to remedy the problem of contaminants on the lands; and

(5) in addition to the identification of contaminants, identification of structures known to have asbestos present and recommendations to inform Native landowners on the containment of asbestos.

*([Pub. L. 92–203, § 40](/us/pl/92/203/s40), as added [Pub. L. 104–42, title I, § 103](/us/pl/104/42/tI/s103), Nov. 2, 1995, [109 Stat. 354](/us/stat/109/354).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
