---
title: "§ 7960. Repeal of superseded price support authority and effect of repeal"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7960"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7960"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–171, title I, § 1310](/us/pl/107/171/tI/s1310), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 182](/us/stat/116/182).)"
---
# § 7960. Repeal of superseded price support authority and effect of repeal

##### § 7960. Repeal of superseded price support authority and effect of repeal

(a) Omitted

(b) Disposal Notwithstanding any other provision of law or previous declaration made by the Secretary, the Secretary shall ensure that the disposal of all peanuts for which a loan for the 2001 crop of peanuts was made under [section 7271 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s7271) before May 13, 2002, is carried out in a manner that prevents price disruptions in the domestic and international markets for peanuts.

(c) Treatment of crop insurance policies for 2002 crop year

(1) Applicability This subsection shall apply for the 2002 crop year only notwithstanding any other provision of law or crop insurance policy.

(2) Price election The nonquota price election for segregation I, II, and III peanuts shall be 17.75 cents per pound and shall be used for all aspects of the policy relating to the calculations of premium, liability, and indemnities.

(3) Quality adjustment For the purposes of quality adjustment only, the average support price per pound of peanuts shall be a price equal to 17.75 cents per pound. Quality under the crop insurance policy for peanuts shall be adjusted under procedures issued by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.

*([Pub. L. 107–171, title I, § 1310](/us/pl/107/171/tI/s1310), May 13, 2002, [116 Stat. 182](/us/stat/116/182).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1310 of Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171/s1310). Subsec. (a) of [section 1310 of Pub. L. 107–171](/us/pl/107/171/s1310) amended sections 1428 and 1441 of this title and repealed 7271 of this title.
