---
title: "§ 18795b. State-based home energy efficiency contractor training grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18795b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18795b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–169, title V, § 50123](/us/pl/117/169/tV/s50123), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/136/2041).)"
---
# § 18795b. State-based home energy efficiency contractor training grants

##### § 18795b. State-based home energy efficiency contractor training grants

(a) Appropriation In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $200,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2031, to carry out a program to provide financial assistance to States to develop and implement a State program described in [section 6322(d)(13) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6322/d/13), which shall provide training and education to contractors involved in the installation of home energy efficiency and electrification improvements, including improvements eligible for rebates under a HOMES rebate program (as defined in [section 18795(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18795/d)) or a high-efficiency electric home rebate program (as defined in [section 18795a(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18795a/d)), as part of an approved State energy conservation plan under the State Energy Program.

(b) Use of funds A State may use amounts received under subsection (a)—

(1) to reduce the cost of training contractor employees;

(2) to provide testing and certification of contractors trained and educated under a State program developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (a); and

(3) to partner with nonprofit organizations to develop and implement a State program pursuant to subsection (a).

(c) Administrative expenses Of the amounts received by a State under subsection (a), a State shall use not more than 10 percent for administrative expenses associated with developing and implementing a State program pursuant to that subsection.

*([Pub. L. 117–169, title V, § 50123](/us/pl/117/169/tV/s50123), Aug. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2041](/us/stat/136/2041).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of [Pub. L. 117–169](/us/pl/117/169), and not as part of div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), which enacted this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “Secretary”, “State”, and “State Energy Program” as used in this section, see [section 50111 of Pub. L. 117–169](/us/pl/117/169/s50111), set out as a note under [section 17113b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s17113b).
