---
title: "§ 6807. Relation to State laws"
identifier: "USC-T15-S6807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section6807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–102, title V, § 507](/us/pl/106/102/tV/s507), Nov. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/113/1442); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1093(6)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1093/6), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2097](/us/stat/124/2097).)"
---
# § 6807. Relation to State laws

##### § 6807. Relation to State laws

(a) In general This subchapter and the amendments made by this subchapter shall not be construed as superseding, altering, or affecting any statute, regulation, order, or interpretation in effect in any State, except to the extent that such statute, regulation, order, or interpretation is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.

(b) Greater protection under State law For purposes of this section, a State statute, regulation, order, or interpretation is not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter if the protection such statute, regulation, order, or interpretation affords any person is greater than the protection provided under this subchapter and the amendments made by this subchapter, as determined by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, after consultation with the agency or authority with jurisdiction under [section 6805(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s6805/a) of either the person that initiated the complaint or that is the subject of the complaint, on its own motion or upon the petition of any interested party.

*([Pub. L. 106–102, title V, § 507](/us/pl/106/102/tV/s507), Nov. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1442](/us/stat/113/1442); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1093(6)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1093/6), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2097](/us/stat/124/2097).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 501–510) of title V of [Pub. L. 106–102](/us/pl/106/102), Nov. 12, 1999, [113 Stat. 1436](/us/stat/113/1436), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection” for “Federal Trade Commission”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.
