---
title: "§ 44743. Pilot training requirements"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44743"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44743"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. V, title I, § 119(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dV/tI/s119/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2338](/us/stat/134/2338).)"
---
# § 44743. Pilot training requirements

##### § 44743. Pilot training requirements

(a) In General.—

(1) Administrator’s determination.— In establishing any pilot training requirements with respect to a new transport airplane, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall independently review any proposal by the manufacturer of such airplane with respect to the scope, format, or minimum level of training required for operation of such airplane.

(2) Assurances and marketing representations.— Before the Administrator has established applicable training requirements, an applicant for a new or amended type certificate for an airplane described in paragraph (1) may not, with respect to the scope, format, or magnitude of pilot training for such airplane—

(A) make any assurance or other contractual commitment, whether verbal or in writing, to a potential purchaser of such airplane unless a clear and conspicuous disclaimer (as defined by the Administrator) is included regarding the status of training required for operation of such airplane; or

(B) provide financial incentives (including rebates) to a potential purchaser of such airplane regarding the scope, format, or magnitude of pilot training for such airplane.

(b) Pilot Response Time.— Beginning on the day after the date on which regulations are issued under section 119(c)(6) of the Aircraft Certification, Safety, and Accountability Act, the Administrator may not issue a new or amended type certificate for an airplane described in subsection (a) unless the applicant for such certificate has demonstrated to the Administrator that the applicant has accounted for realistic assumptions regarding the time for pilot responses to non-normal conditions in designing the systems and instrumentation of such airplane. Such assumptions shall—

(1) be based on test data, analysis, or other technical validation methods; and

(2) account for generally accepted scientific consensus among experts in human factors regarding realistic pilot response time.

(c) Definition.— In this section, the term “transport airplane” means a transport category airplane designed for operation by an air carrier or foreign air carrier type-certificated with a passenger seating capacity of 30 or more or an all-cargo or combi derivative of such an airplane.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. V, title I, § 119(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dV/tI/s119/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2338](/us/stat/134/2338).)*

#### References in Text

Section 119(c) of the Aircraft Certification, Safety, and Accountability Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [section 119(c) of title I of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/tI/s119/c), div. V, Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2339](/us/stat/134/2339), which is set out as a note under [section 44704 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s44704).
