---
title: "§ 13364. Study of utilization of coal combustion byproducts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S13364"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section13364"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–486, title XIII, § 1334](/us/pl/102/486/tXIII/s1334), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/106/2984).)"
---
# § 13364. Study of utilization of coal combustion byproducts

##### § 13364. Study of utilization of coal combustion byproducts

(a) “Coal combustion byproducts” defined As used in this section, the term “coal combustion byproducts” means the residues from the combustion of coal including ash, slag, and flue gas desulfurization materials.

(b) Study and report to Congress

(1) The Secretary shall conduct a detailed and comprehensive study on the institutional, legal, and regulatory barriers to increased utilization of coal combustion byproducts by potential governmental and commercial users. Such study shall identify and investigate barriers found to exist at the Federal, State, or local level, which may have limited or may have the foreseeable effect of limiting the quantities of coal combustion byproducts that are utilized. In conducting this study, the Secretary shall consult with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, appropriate State and local governments, and the private sector.

(2) Not later than one year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress containing the results of the study required by paragraph (1) and the Secretary’s recommendations for action to be taken to increase the utilization of coal combustion byproducts. At a minimum, such report shall identify actions that would increase the utilization of coal combustion byproducts in—

(A) bridge and highway construction;

(B) stabilizing wastes;

(C) procurement by departments and agencies of the Federal Government and State and local governments; and

(D) federally funded or federally subsidized procurement by the private sector.

*([Pub. L. 102–486, title XIII, § 1334](/us/pl/102/486/tXIII/s1334), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 2984](/us/stat/106/2984).)*
