---
title: "§ 3916. Information for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents on rights and protections of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3916"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3916"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 690](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s690), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/119/3337).)"
---
# § 3916. Information for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents on rights and protections of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act

##### § 3916. Information for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents on rights and protections of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act

(a) Outreach to members The Secretary concerned shall provide to each member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary pertinent information on the rights and protections available to members and their dependents under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act [[50 U.S.C. 3901](/us/usc/t50/s3901) et seq.].

(b) Time of provision The information required to be provided under subsection (a) to a member shall be provided at the following times:

(1) During the initial orientation training of the member.

(2) In the case of a member of a reserve component, during the initial orientation training of the member and when the member is mobilized or otherwise individually called or ordered to active duty for a period of more than one year.

(3) At such other times as the Secretary concerned considers appropriate.

(c) Outreach to dependents The Secretary concerned may provide to the adult dependents of members under the jurisdiction of the Secretary pertinent information on the rights and protections available to members and their dependents under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act [[50 U.S.C. 3901](/us/usc/t50/s3901) et seq.].

(d) Definitions In this section, the terms “dependent” and “Secretary concerned” have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act [[50 U.S.C. 3911](/us/usc/t50/s3911)].

*([Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 690](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tVI/s690), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/119/3337).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), is [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), [54 Stat. 1178](/us/stat/54/1178), which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 515a of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, and not as part of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act which comprises this chapter.
