---
title: "§ 1038. Cooperation with appropriate State and other governmental agencies; utilization of employees; reimbursement"
identifier: "USC-T21-S1038"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section1038"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–597, § 9](/us/pl/91/597/s9), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/84/1627).)"
---
# § 1038. Cooperation with appropriate State and other governmental agencies; utilization of employees; reimbursement

##### § 1038. Cooperation with appropriate State and other governmental agencies; utilization of employees; reimbursement

The Secretary shall, whenever he determines that it would effectuate the purposes of this chapter, cooperate with appropriate State and other governmental agencies, in carrying out any provisions of this chapter. In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Secretary may conduct such examinations, investigations, and inspections as he determines practicable through any officer or employee of any such agency commissioned by him for such purpose. The Secretary shall reimburse the States and other agencies for the costs incurred by them in such cooperative programs.

*([Pub. L. 91–597, § 9](/us/pl/91/597/s9), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1627](/us/stat/84/1627).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597), Dec. 29, 1970, [84 Stat. 1620](/us/stat/84/1620), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

For effective date of this section, see [section 29 of Pub. L. 91–597](/us/pl/91/597/s29), set out as a note under [section 1031 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s1031).
