---
title: "§ 8514b. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other related activities against citizens of Iran"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8514b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8514b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105B](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105B), as added [Pub. L. 112–158, title IV, § 403(b)](/us/pl/112/158/tIV/s403/b), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/126/1254).)"
---
# § 8514b. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other related activities against citizens of Iran

##### § 8514b. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other related activities against citizens of Iran

(a) In general The President shall impose sanctions described in [section 8514(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/c) with respect to each person on the list required by subsection (b).

(b) List of persons who engage in censorship

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after August 10, 2012, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons that the President determines have, on or after June 12, 2009, engaged in censorship or other activities with respect to Iran that—

(A) prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by citizens of Iran; or

(B) limit access to print or broadcast media, including the facilitation or support of intentional frequency manipulation by the Government of Iran or an entity owned or controlled by that Government that would jam or restrict an international signal.

(2) Updates of list The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—

(A) each time the President is required to submit an updated list to those committees under [section 8514(b)(2)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8514/b/2/A); and

(B) as new information becomes available.

(3) Form of report; public availability

(A) Form The list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

(B) Public availability The unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.

*([Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105B](/us/pl/111/195/tI/s105B), as added [Pub. L. 112–158, title IV, § 403(b)](/us/pl/112/158/tIV/s403/b), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1254](/us/stat/126/1254).)*
