---
title: "§ 3154d. Renewable energy program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3154d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3154d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 218](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s218), as added [Pub. L. 108–373, title II, § 213(a)](/us/pl/108/373/tII/s213/a), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1766](/us/stat/118/1766); amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2220](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2220), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3185](/us/stat/138/3185).)"
---
# § 3154d. Renewable energy program

##### § 3154d. Renewable energy program

(a) Definition of renewable energy site In this section, the term “renewable energy site” means a brownfield site that is redeveloped through the incorporation of 1 or more renewable energy technologies, including solar, wind, geothermal, ocean, and emerging, but proven, renewable energy technologies.

(b) Establishment On the application of an eligible recipient, the Secretary may make a grant for a project for the development of a renewable energy site if the Secretary determines that the project will—

(1) use 1 or more renewable energy technologies described in subsection (a), to develop abandoned or contaminated sites for commercial use; and

(2) improve the commercial and economic opportunities in the area in which the project is located.

(c) Savings clause To the extent that any portion of a grant awarded under subsection (b) involves remediation, the remediation shall be subject to [section 3222 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3222).

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 218](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s218), as added [Pub. L. 108–373, title II, § 213(a)](/us/pl/108/373/tII/s213/a), Oct. 27, 2004, [118 Stat. 1766](/us/stat/118/1766); amended [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2220](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2220), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3185](/us/stat/138/3185).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—[Pub. L. 118–272, § 2220(1)](/us/pl/118/272/s2220/1), substituted “Renewable energy” for “Brightfields demonstration” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2220(2)](/us/pl/118/272/s2220/2), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “In this section, the term ‘brightfield site’ means a brownfield site that is redeveloped through the incorporation of 1 or more solar energy technologies.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2220(3)(A)](/us/pl/118/272/s2220/3/A), (B), substituted “Establishment” for “Demonstration program” in heading and “renewable energy” for “brightfield” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2220(3)(C)](/us/pl/118/272/s2220/3/C), substituted “renewable energy technologies described in subsection (a),” for “solar energy technologies”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 118–272, § 2220(4)](/us/pl/118/272/s2220/4), struck out subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2008, to remain available until expended.”
