---
title: "§ 20401. Applicability of certain provisions of law related to separation"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1718(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1718/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 656](/us/stat/137/656); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(w)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/w), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/138/1883).)"
---
# § 20401. Applicability of certain provisions of law related to separation

##### § 20401. Applicability of certain provisions of law related to separation

(a) Officer Separation.— Except as specified in this section or otherwise modified in this chapter, the provisions of chapter 59 of this title applicable to officers of a regular component shall apply to officers of the Space Force.

(b) Except as specified in this section or otherwise modified in this chapter, the provisions of sections 1169, 1170, 1171, 1173, 1174(b), and 1176(a) of chapter 59 of this title applicable to enlisted members of a regular component shall apply to enlisted members of the Space Force.

(c) The provisions of [section 1172 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1172) pertaining to a person enlisted under [section 518 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s518) shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space Force.

(d) The provisions of [section 1174 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1174)—

(1) pertaining to a regular officer shall apply to a Space Force officer serving on sustained duty;

(2) pertaining to a regular enlisted member shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space Force serving on sustained duty; and

(3) pertaining to other members shall apply to members of the Space Force not serving on sustained duty.

(e) The provisions of [section 1175 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1175) pertaining to a voluntary appointment, enlistment, or transfer to a reserve component shall apply to the voluntary release from active duty of a member of the Space Force on sustained duty.

(f) The provisions of [section 1176 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1176)—

(1) pertaining to a regular enlisted member shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space Force serving on sustained duty; and

(2) pertaining to a reserve enlisted member serving in an active status shall apply to an enlisted member of the Space Force serving in a space force active status or on sustained duty.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1718(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1718/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 656](/us/stat/137/656); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 521(w)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s521/w), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1883](/us/stat/138/1883).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) inserted “, and” after “1174(b)”.
