---
title: "§ 1616e. Nursing program"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 112](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s112), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 108](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s108), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4795](/us/stat/102/4795); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I](/us/pl/102/573/tI), §§ 104(b), (c), 114(a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4533](/us/stat/106/4533), 4543.)"
---
# § 1616e. Nursing program

##### § 1616e. Nursing program

(a) Grants The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide grants to—

for the purpose of increasing the number of nurses, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners who deliver health care services to Indians.

(1) public or private schools of nursing,

(2) tribally controlled community colleges and tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions (as defined in section 2397h(2) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 20), and

(3) nurse midwife programs, and nurse practitioner programs, that are provided by any public or private institution,

(b) Purposes Grants provided under subsection (a) may be used to—

(1) recruit individuals for programs which train individuals to be nurses, nurse midwives, or nurse practitioners,

(2) provide scholarships to individuals enrolled in such programs that may pay the tuition charged for such program and other expenses incurred in connection with such program, including books, fees, room and board, and stipends for living expenses,

(3) provide a program that encourages nurses, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners to provide, or continue to provide, health care services to Indians,

(4) provide a program that increases the skills of, and provides continuing education to, nurses, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners, or

(5) provide any program that is designed to achieve the purpose described in subsection (a).

(c) Application Each application for a grant under subsection (a) shall include such information as the Secretary may require to establish the connection between the program of the applicant and a health care facility that primarily serves Indians.

(d) Preference In providing grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall extend a preference to—

(1) programs that provide a preference to Indians,

(2) programs that train nurse midwives or nurse practitioners,

(3) programs that are interdisciplinary, and

(4) programs that are conducted in cooperation with a center for gifted and talented Indian students established under section 2624(a) ^1 of this title.

(e) Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program The Secretary shall provide one of the grants authorized under subsection (a) to establish and maintain a program at the University of North Dakota to be known as the “Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program”. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs established under [section 1616g(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1616g/b) and the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Psychology Program established under [section 1621p(b) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1621p/b).

(f) Service obligation The active duty service obligation prescribed under [section 254m of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s254m) shall be met by each individual who receives training or assistance described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b) that is funded by a grant provided under subsection (a). Such obligation shall be met by service—

(A) in the Indian Health Service;

(B) in a program conducted under a contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act [[25 U.S.C. 5321](/us/usc/t25/s5321) et seq.];

(C) in a program assisted under subchapter IV of this chapter; or

(D) in the private practice of nursing if, as determined by the Secretary, in accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Secretary, such practice is situated in a physician or other health professional shortage area and addresses the health care needs of a substantial number of Indians.

(g) Authorization of appropriations Beginning with fiscal year 1993, of the amounts appropriated under the authority of this subchapter for each fiscal year to be used to carry out this section, not less than $1,000,000 shall be used to provide grants under subsection (a) for the training of nurse midwives, nurse anesthetists, and nurse practitioners.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 112](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s112), as added [Pub. L. 100–713, title I, § 108](/us/pl/100/713/tI/s108), Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4795](/us/stat/102/4795); amended [Pub. L. 102–573, title I](/us/pl/102/573/tI), §§ 104(b), (c), 114(a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4533](/us/stat/106/4533), 4543.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 2397h of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s2397h), referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was omitted in the general amendment of chapter 44 (§ 2301 et seq.) of Title 20, Education, by [Pub. L. 105–332, § 1(b)](/us/pl/105/332/s1/b), Oct. 31, 1998, [112 Stat. 3076](/us/stat/112/3076).

[Section 2624 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2624), referred to in subsec. (d)(4), was repealed by [Pub. L. 103–382, title III, § 367](/us/pl/103/382/tIII/s367), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 3976](/us/stat/108/3976).

The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (f)(B), is title I of [Pub. L. 93–638](/us/pl/93/638), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/88/2206), which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 5321 et seq.) of chapter 46 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 114(a)](/us/pl/102/573/s114/a), inserted “and tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions (as defined in [section 2397h(2) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s2397h/2))” after “community colleges”.

Subsecs. (e), (f). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 104(b)](/us/pl/102/573/s104/b), added subsec. (e) and redesignated former subsec. (e) as (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 102–573, § 104(c)](/us/pl/102/573/s104/c), amended subsec. (g) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (g) read as follows:

“(1) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992, $5,000,000 for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section.

“(2) Of the amounts appropriated under the authority of paragraph (1) for each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use at least $1,000,000 to provide grants under subsection (a) for the training of nurse midwives.”

[Pub. L. 102–573, § 104(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/573/s104/b/1), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).
