---
title: "§ 6803. Development of electric utility rate design proposals by Secretary; contents; submission to Congress; supporting analysis"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6803"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6803"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–385, title II, § 203](/us/pl/94/385/tII/s203), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/90/1143); [Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 143](/us/pl/95/617/tI/s143), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3134](/us/stat/92/3134).)"
---
# § 6803. Development of electric utility rate design proposals by Secretary; contents; submission to Congress; supporting analysis

##### § 6803. Development of electric utility rate design proposals by Secretary; contents; submission to Congress; supporting analysis

(a) The Secretary shall develop proposals to improve electric utility rate design. Such proposals shall be designed to encourage energy conservation, minimize the need for new electrical generating capacity, and minimize costs of electric energy to consumers, and shall include (but not be limited to) proposals which provide for the development and implementation of—

(1) load management techniques which are cost effective;

(2) rates which reflect marginal cost of service, or time of use of service, or both;

(3) ratemaking policies which discourage inefficient use of fuel and encourage economical purchases of fuel; and

(4) rates (or other regulatory policies) which encourage electric utility system reliability and reliability of major items of electric utility equipment.

(b) The proposals prepared under subsection (a) shall be transmitted to each House of Congress not later than 6 months after August 14, 1976, for review and for such further action as the Congress may direct by law. Such proposals shall be accompanied by an analysis of—

which are likely to result from the implementation nationally of each of the proposals transmitted under this subsection.

(1) the projected savings (if any) in consumption of petroleum products, natural gas, electric energy, and other energy resources,

(2) the reduction (if any) in the need for new electrical generating capacity, and of the demand for capital by the electric utility industry, and

(3) changes (if any) in the cost of electric energy to consumers,

*([Pub. L. 94–385, title II, § 203](/us/pl/94/385/tII/s203), Aug. 14, 1976, [90 Stat. 1143](/us/stat/90/1143); [Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 143](/us/pl/95/617/tI/s143), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3134](/us/stat/92/3134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 95–617](/us/pl/95/617) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator”, meaning Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration.
