---
title: "§ 8562. Improving probable maximum precipitation estimates"
identifier: "USC-T15-S8562"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section8562"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–25, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/115/25/tVI/s602), as added [Pub. L. 117–229, div. D, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/229/dD/s2/a), Dec. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/136/2314).)"
---
# § 8562. Improving probable maximum precipitation estimates

##### § 8562. Improving probable maximum precipitation estimates

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after the date on which the National Academies makes public the report under [section 8561 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8561), the Administrator, in consideration of the report recommendations, shall consult with relevant partners, including users of the data, on the development of a plan to—

(1) not later than 6 years after the completion of such report and not less than every 10 years thereafter, update probable maximum precipitation estimates for the United States, such that each update considers non-stationarity;

(2) coordinate with partners to conduct research in the field of extreme precipitation estimation, in accordance with the research needs identified in such report;

(3) make publicly available, in a searchable, interoperable format, all probable maximum precipitation studies developed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that the Administrator has the legal right to redistribute and deemed to be at an appropriate state of development on an internet website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and

(4) ensure all probable maximum precipitation estimate data, products, and supporting documentation and metadata developed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are preserved, curated, and served by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, as appropriate.

(b) National guidance document for the development of probable maximum precipitation estimates The Administrator, in collaboration with Federal agencies, State, territorial, Tribal and local governments, academia, and other partners the Administrator deems appropriate, shall develop a National Guidance Document that—

(1) provides best practices that can be followed by Federal and State regulatory agencies, private meteorological consultants, and other users that perform probable maximum precipitation studies;

(2) considers the recommendations provided in the National Academies study under [section 8561 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8561);

(3) facilitates review of probable maximum precipitation studies by regulatory agencies; and

(4) provides confidence in regional and site-specific probable maximum precipitation estimates.

(c) Publication Not later than 2 years after the date on which the National Academies makes public the report under [section 8561 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s8561), the Administrator shall make publicly available the National Guidance Document under subsection (b) on an internet website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(d) Updates The Administrator shall update the National Guidance Document not less than once every 10 years after the publication of the National Guidance Document under subsection (c) and publish such updates in accordance with such subsection.

*([Pub. L. 115–25, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/115/25/tVI/s602), as added [Pub. L. 117–229, div. D, § 2(a)](/us/pl/117/229/dD/s2/a), Dec. 16, 2022, [136 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/136/2314).)*
