---
title: "§ 9506. Civil penalty"
identifier: "USC-T40-S9506"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section9506"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/116/1234).)"
---
# § 9506. Civil penalty

##### § 9506. Civil penalty

A person that, without the consent of the Chief of Engineers, taps or opens the mains or pipes laid by the Federal Government is liable to the Government for a civil penalty of at least $50 and not more than $500.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1234](/us/stat/116/1234).)*

The words “in charge of public buildings and works” in section 1803 of the Revised Statutes are omitted because the Office of Public Buildings and Grounds under the Chief of Engineers was abolished and the functions of the Chief of Engineers with respect to public buildings and works were transferred to the Director of Public Buildings and Public Parks of the National Capital by [section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1925](/us/act/1925-02-26/s3) (ch. 339, [43 Stat. 983](/us/stat/43/983)). Those functions subsequently were transferred to the National Park Service by section 2 of Executive Order No. 6166 (eff. June 10, 1933) and the Act of March 2, 1934 (ch. 38, [48 Stat. 389](/us/stat/48/389)), the Public Buildings Administrator in the Federal Works Agency by sections 301 and 303 of Reorganization Plan No. I of 1939 (eff. July 1, 1939, [53 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/53/1426), 1427), and the Administrator of General Services by section 103(a) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (ch. 288, [63 Stat. 380](/us/stat/63/380)), which is restated as section 303(c) [303(b)] of the revised title. The words “or hereafter to be laid” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “is liable to the government for a civil penalty” are substituted for “under a penalty” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9506 | 40:56. | R.S. § 1803. |
