---
title: "§ 2303. Designation of written warranties"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–637, title I, § 103](/us/pl/93/637/tI/s103), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2187](/us/stat/88/2187).)"
---
# § 2303. Designation of written warranties

##### § 2303. Designation of written warranties

(a) Full (statement of duration) or limited warranty Any warrantor warranting a consumer product by means of a written warranty shall clearly and conspicuously designate such warranty in the following manner, unless exempted from doing so by the Commission pursuant to subsection (c) of this section:

(1) If the written warranty meets the Federal minimum standards for warranty set forth in [section 2304 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2304), then it shall be conspicuously designated a “full (statement of duration) warranty”.

(2) If the written warranty does not meet the Federal minimum standards for warranty set forth in [section 2304 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2304), then it shall be conspicuously designated a “limited warranty”.

(b) Applicability of requirements, standards, etc., to representations or statements of customer satisfaction This section and sections 2302 and 2304 of this title shall not apply to statements or representations which are similar to expressions of general policy concerning customer satisfaction and which are not subject to any specific limitations.

(c) Exemptions by Commission In addition to exercising the authority pertaining to disclosure granted in [section 2302 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2302), the Commission may by rule determine when a written warranty does not have to be designated either “full (statement of duration)” or “limited” in accordance with this section.

(d) Applicability to consumer products costing more than $10 and not designated as full warranties The provisions of subsections (a) and (c) of this section apply only to warranties which pertain to consumer products actually costing the consumer more than $10 and which are not designated “full (statement of duration) warranties”.

*([Pub. L. 93–637, title I, § 103](/us/pl/93/637/tI/s103), Jan. 4, 1975, [88 Stat. 2187](/us/stat/88/2187).)*
