---
title: "§ 408. Order not for payment of money; when effective"
identifier: "USC-T47-S408"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section408"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title IV, § 408, [48 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/48/1096); [Pub. L. 97–259, title I, § 123](/us/pl/97/259/tI/s123), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1098](/us/stat/96/1098).)"
---
# § 408. Order not for payment of money; when effective

##### § 408. Order not for payment of money; when effective

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all orders of the Commission, other than orders for the payment of money, shall take effect thirty calendar days from the date upon which public notice of the order is given, unless the Commission designates a different effective date. All such orders shall continue in force for the period of time specified in the order or until the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction issues a superseding order.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title IV, § 408, [48 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/48/1096); [Pub. L. 97–259, title I, § 123](/us/pl/97/259/tI/s123), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1098](/us/stat/96/1098).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1982—[Pub. L. 97–259](/us/pl/97/259) substituted provision that all orders of the Commission but for payment of money shall take effect thirty calendar days from the date upon which public notice of the order is given, unless the Commission designates a different effective date, and that such orders shall continue in force for the period of time specified in the order or until the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction issues a superseding order, for provision that such orders would take effect within such reasonable time, not less than thirty days after service of the order, and would continue in force until its further order, or for a specified period of time, as prescribed in the order, unless the same were suspended or modified or set aside by the Commission, or suspended or set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction.
