---
title: "§ 1430b. Advances to nonmember mortgagee; terms and conditions"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1430b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1430b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([July 22, 1932, ch. 522, § 10b](/us/act/1932-07-22/ch522/s10b), as added [May 25, 1935, ch. 150, § 7](/us/act/1935-05-25/ch150/s7), [49 Stat. 295](/us/stat/49/295); amended [Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, § 701(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/73/tVII/s701/b/1), (3)(A), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 412](/us/stat/103/412); [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1392(b)](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1392/b), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4009](/us/stat/106/4009); [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title II, § 1204(8)](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tII/s1204"
---
# § 1430b. Advances to nonmember mortgagee; terms and conditions

##### § 1430b. Advances to nonmember mortgagee; terms and conditions

(a) In general Each Federal Home Loan Bank is authorized to make advances to nonmember mortgagees approved under title II of the National Housing Act [[12 U.S.C. 1707](/us/usc/t12/s1707) et seq.]. Such mortgagees must be chartered institutions having succession and subject to the inspection and supervision of some governmental agency, and whose principal activity in the mortgage field must consist of lending their own funds. Such advances shall not be subject to the other provisions and restrictions of this chapter, but shall be made upon the security of insured mortgages, insured under title II of the National Housing Act. Advances made under the terms of this section shall be at such rates of interest and upon such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Director, but no advance may be for an amount in excess of 90 per centum of the unpaid principal of the mortgage loan given as security.

(b) Exception An advance made to a State housing finance agency for the purpose of facilitating mortgage lending that benefits individuals and families that meet the income requirements set forth in section 142(d) or 143(f) of title 26, need not be collateralized by a mortgage insured under title II of the National Housing Act [[12 U.S.C. 1707](/us/usc/t12/s1707) et seq.] or otherwise, if—

(1) such advance otherwise meets the requirements of this subsection; and

(2) such advance meets the requirements of [section 1430(a) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1430/a), and any real estate collateral for such loan comprises single family or multifamily residential mortgages.

*([July 22, 1932, ch. 522, § 10b](/us/act/1932-07-22/ch522/s10b), as added [May 25, 1935, ch. 150, § 7](/us/act/1935-05-25/ch150/s7), [49 Stat. 295](/us/stat/49/295); amended [Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, § 701(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/73/tVII/s701/b/1), (3)(A), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 412](/us/stat/103/412); [Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1392(b)](/us/pl/102/550/tXIII/s1392/b), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4009](/us/stat/106/4009); [Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title II, § 1204(8)](/us/pl/110/289/dA/tII/s1204/8), July 30, 2008, [122 Stat. 2786](/us/stat/122/2786).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, referred to in text, is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246). Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1707 et seq.) of chapter 13 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–289](/us/pl/110/289) substituted “the Director” for “the Board”.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

1989—[Pub. L. 101–73](/us/pl/101/73) substituted “Board” for “Federal Home Loan Bank Board”.
