---
title: "§ 3054. POW/MIA analytic capability"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3054"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3054"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 117, as added [Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 307(a)](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s307/a), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2839](/us/stat/114/2839); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(a)(1)(T)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/a/1/T), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689).)"
---
# § 3054. POW/MIA analytic capability

##### § 3054. POW/MIA analytic capability

(a) Requirement

(1) The Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, establish and maintain in the intelligence community an analytic capability with responsibility for intelligence in support of the activities of the United States relating to individuals who, after December 31, 1990, are unaccounted for United States personnel.

(2) The analytic capability maintained under paragraph (1) shall be known as the “POW/MIA analytic capability of the intelligence community”.

(b) Unaccounted for United States personnel In this section, the term “unaccounted for United States personnel” means the following:

(1) Any missing person (as that term is defined in [section 1513(1) of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1513/1)).

(2) Any United States national who was killed while engaged in activities on behalf of the United States and whose remains have not been repatriated to the United States.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 117, as added [Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 307(a)](/us/pl/106/567/tIII/s307/a), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2839](/us/stat/114/2839); amended [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(a)(1)(T)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/a/1/T), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3689](/us/stat/118/3689).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 404*l* of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
