---
title: "§ 2055. Mandatory retirement"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2055"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2055"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 235](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s235), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3225](/us/stat/106/3225); amended [Pub. L. 111–259, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/259/tII/s201), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2657](/us/stat/124/2657).)"
---
# § 2055. Mandatory retirement

##### § 2055. Mandatory retirement

(a) Involuntary retirement

(1) Authority of director.— The Director may, in the Director’s discretion, place in a retired status any participant in the system described in paragraph (2).

(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to any participant who has not less than 10 years of service with the Agency and who—

(A) has completed at least 25 years of service; or

(B) is at least 50 years of age and has completed at least 20 years of service.

(b) Mandatory retirement for age

(1) In general A participant in the system shall be automatically retired from the Agency—

(A) upon reaching age 65, in the case of a participant in the system who is at the Senior Intelligence Service rank of level 4 or above; and

(B) upon reaching age 60, in the case of any other participant in the system.

(2) Effective date of retirement Retirement under paragraph (1) shall be effective on the last day of the month in which the participant reaches the age applicable to that participant under that paragraph.

(3) Authority for extension In any case in which the Director determines it to be in the public interest, the Director may extend the mandatory retirement date for a participant under this subsection by a period of not to exceed 5 years.

(c) Retirement benefits A participant retired under this section shall receive retirement benefits in accordance with [section 2031 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031).

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 235](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s235), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3225](/us/stat/106/3225); amended [Pub. L. 111–259, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/259/tII/s201), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2657](/us/stat/124/2657).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 235 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s235), title II, Oct. 13, 1964, [78 Stat. 1049](/us/stat/78/1049); Ex. Ord. No. 12443, § 13, Sept. 27, 1983, 48 F.R. 44754; [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622); [Pub. L. 102–183, title III, § 307](/us/pl/102/183/tIII/s307), Dec. 4, 1991, [105 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/105/1265), related to mandatory retirement and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (b)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 111–259](/us/pl/111/259) substituted “who is at the Senior Intelligence Service rank” for “receiving compensation under the Senior Intelligence Service pay schedule at the rate”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
