---
title: "§ 12462. Purpose"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12462"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12462"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41302](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41302), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/119/3018).)"
---
# § 12462. Purpose

##### § 12462. Purpose

(1) prevent crimes involving violence against women, children, and youth;

(2) increase the resources and services available to prevent violence against women, children, and youth;

(3) reduce the impact of exposure to violence in the lives of children and youth so that the intergenerational cycle of violence is interrupted;

(4) develop and implement education and services programs to prevent children in vulnerable families from becoming victims or perpetrators of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;

(5) promote programs to ensure that children and youth receive the assistance they need to end the cycle of violence and develop mutually respectful, nonviolent relationships; and

(6) encourage collaboration among community-based organizations and governmental agencies serving children and youth, providers of health and mental health services and providers of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking victim services to prevent violence against women and children.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41302](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s41302), as added [Pub. L. 109–162, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/109/162/tIV/s401), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3018](/us/stat/119/3018).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 14043d–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s14043d–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
