---
title: "§ 705. Rest and recuperation absence: qualified members extending duty at designated locations overseas"
identifier: "USC-T10-S705"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section705"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–579, § 5(b)(1)](/us/pl/96/579/s5/b/1), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/94/3366); amended [Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, § 574(a)](/us/pl/107/314/dA/tV/s574/a)–(b)(2)(A), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2558](/us/stat/116/2558); [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VI, § 621(b)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tVI/s621/b), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/117/1505); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title V, § 552](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tV/s552), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 117](/us/stat/122/117);"
---
# § 705. Rest and recuperation absence: qualified members extending duty at designated locations overseas

##### § 705. Rest and recuperation absence: qualified members extending duty at designated locations overseas

(a) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a member of an armed force who—

may, in lieu of receiving special pay under section 314 or 352 of title 37 for duty performed during such extension of duty, elect to receive one of the benefits specified in subsection (b). Receipt of any such benefit is in addition to any other leave or transportation to which the member may be entitled.

(1) is entitled to basic pay;

(2) has a specialty that is designated by the Secretary concerned for the purposes of this section;

(3) has completed a tour of duty (as defined in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned) at a location outside the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia that is designated by the Secretary concerned for the purposes of this section; and

(4) at the end of that tour of duty executes an agreement to extend that tour for a period of not less than one year;

(b) The benefits authorized by subsection (a) are—

(1) a period of rest and recuperation absence for not more than 30 days; or

(2) a period of rest and recuperation absence for not more than 15 days for members whose qualifying tour of duty is 12 months or less, or for not more than 20 days for members whose qualifying tour of duty is longer than 12 months, and round-trip transportation at Government expense from the location of the extended tour of duty to the nearest port in the 48 contiguous States and return, or to an alternative destination and return at a cost not to exceed the cost of round-trip transportation from the location of the extended tour of duty to such nearest port.

(c) The provisions of this section shall not be effective unless the Secretary concerned determines that the application of this section will not adversely affect combat or unit readiness.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–579, § 5(b)(1)](/us/pl/96/579/s5/b/1), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/94/3366); amended [Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, § 574(a)](/us/pl/107/314/dA/tV/s574/a)–(b)(2)(A), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2558](/us/stat/116/2558); [Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VI, § 621(b)](/us/pl/108/136/dA/tVI/s621/b), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1505](/us/stat/117/1505); [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title V, § 552](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tV/s552), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 117](/us/stat/122/117); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VI, § 618(d)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVI/s618/d), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/131/1426).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–91](/us/pl/115/91) inserted “or 352” after “section 314” in concluding provisions.

2008—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 110–181](/us/pl/110/181) inserted “for members whose qualifying tour of duty is 12 months or less, or for not more than 20 days for members whose qualifying tour of duty is longer than 12 months,” after “for not more than 15 days”.

2003–[Pub. L. 108–136, § 621(b)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/s621/b/2), struck out “enlisted” before “members” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–136, § 621(b)(1)](/us/pl/108/136/s621/b/1), substituted “a member” for “an enlisted member” in introductory provisions.

2002—[Pub. L. 107–314, § 574(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/107/314/s574/b/2/A), substituted “recuperation absence: qualified enlisted members” for “recuperative absence for qualified enlisted members” in section catchline.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314) substituted “recuperation” for “recuperative” in pars. (1) and (2) and inserted before period at end of par. (2) “, or to an alternative destination and return at a cost not to exceed the cost of round-trip transportation from the location of the extended tour of duty to such nearest port”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 96–579, § 5(c)(2)](/us/pl/96/579/s5/c/2), Dec. 23, 1980, [94 Stat. 3367](/us/stat/94/3367), provided: “[Section 705 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s705), United States Code, as added by subsection (b), shall take effect upon the date of the enactment of this section [Dec. 23, 1980] and shall apply only with respect to periods of extended duty overseas beginning on or after such date of enactment.”
