---
title: "§ 1885a. Report on Seafood Import Monitoring Program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1885a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1885a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIII, § 11334](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIII/s11334), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4100](/us/stat/136/4100).)"
---
# § 1885a. Report on Seafood Import Monitoring Program

##### § 1885a. Report on Seafood Import Monitoring Program

(a) Report to Congress and public availability of reports The Secretary shall, not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report that summarizes the National Marine Fisheries Service’s efforts to prevent the importation of seafood harvested through illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing, particularly with respect to seafood harvested, produced, processed, or manufactured by forced labor. Each such report shall be made publicly available on the website of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(b) Contents Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the volume and value of seafood species subject to the Seafood Import Monitoring Program, reported by 10-digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States codes, imported during the previous fiscal year;

(2) the enforcement activities and priorities of the National Marine Fisheries Service with respect to implementing the requirements under the Seafood Import Monitoring Program;

(3) the percentage of import shipments subject to the Seafood Import Monitoring Program selected for inspection or the information or records supporting entry selected for audit, as described in section 300.324(d) of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations;

(4) the number and types of instances of noncompliance with the requirements of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program;

(5) the number and types of instances of violations of State or Federal law discovered through the Seafood Import Monitoring Program;

(6) the seafood species with respect to which violations described in paragraphs (4) and (5) were most prevalent;

(7) the location of catch or harvest with respect to which violations described in paragraphs (4) and (5) were most prevalent;

(8) the additional tools, such as high performance computing and associated costs, that the Secretary needs to improve the efficacy of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program; and

(9) such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate with respect to monitoring and enforcing compliance with the Seafood Import Monitoring Program.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIII, § 11334](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIII/s11334), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4100](/us/stat/136/4100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1202), Customs Duties.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 and also as part of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, and not as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIII, § 11329](/us/pl/117/263/dK/tCXIII/s11329), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 4098](/us/stat/136/4098), provided that: “In this subtitle [subtitle E (§§ 11329–11341) of title CXIII of div. K of [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263), see Tables for classification]: “(1) Forced labor.—The term ‘forced labor’ means any labor or service provided for or obtained by any means described in [section 1589(a) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1589/a), United States Code. “(2) Human trafficking.—The term ‘human trafficking’ has the meaning given the term ‘severe forms of trafficking in persons’ in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 ([22 U.S.C. 7102](/us/usc/t22/s7102)). “(3) Illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing.—The term ‘illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing’ has the meaning given such term in the implementing regulations or any subsequent regulations issued pursuant to section 609(e) of the High Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Protection Act ([16 U.S.C. 1826j(e)](/us/usc/t16/s1826j/e)). “(4) Oppressive child labor.—The term ‘oppressive child labor’ has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 ([29 U.S.C. 203](/us/usc/t29/s203)). “(5) Seafood.—The term ‘seafood’ means all marine animal and plant life meant for consumption as food other than marine mammals and birds, including fish, shellfish, shellfish products, and processed fish. “(6) Seafood Import Monitoring Program.—The term ‘Seafood Import Monitoring Program’ means the Seafood Traceability Program established in subpart Q of part 300 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation). “(7) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.”
