---
title: "§ 1110. Borrowing between Federal accounts"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title IX, § 910, as added [Pub. L. 102–318, title V, § 531(c)](/us/pl/102/318/tV/s531/c), July 3, 1992, [106 Stat. 316](/us/stat/106/316).)"
---
# § 1110. Borrowing between Federal accounts

##### § 1110. Borrowing between Federal accounts

(a) In general Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury (after consultation with the Secretary of Labor) determines that—

the Secretary shall transfer to the account referred to in paragraph (1) from the account referred to 11 So in original. Probably should be “to in”. paragraph (3) an amount equal to the insufficiency determined under paragraph (1) (or, if less, the excess determined under paragraph (3)).

(1) the amount in the employment security administration account, Federal unemployment account, or extended unemployment compensation account, is insufficient to meet the anticipated payments from the account,

(2) such insufficiency may cause such account to borrow from the general fund of the Treasury, and

(3) the amount in any other such account exceeds the amount necessary to meet the anticipated payments from such other account,

(b) Treatment of advance Any amount transferred under subsection (a)—

(1) shall be treated as a noninterest-bearing repayable advance, and

(2) shall not be considered in computing the amount in any account for purposes of the application of sections 1101(f)(2), 1102(b), and 1105(b) of this title.

(c) Repayment Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury (after consultation with the Secretary of Labor) determines that the amount in the account to which an advance is made under subsection (a) exceeds the amount necessary to meet the anticipated payments from the account, the Secretary shall transfer from the account to the account from which the advance was made an amount equal to the lesser of the amount so advanced or such excess.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title IX, § 910, as added [Pub. L. 102–318, title V, § 531(c)](/us/pl/102/318/tV/s531/c), July 3, 1992, [106 Stat. 316](/us/stat/106/316).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1110, [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IX, § 910](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531/tIX/s910), [49 Stat. 644](/us/stat/49/644), related to conditions of additional credit allowance. For further details, see Prior Law note set out preceding [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1101).
