---
title: "§ 1681. Sex"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1681"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1681"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–318, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/92/318/tIX/s901), June 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 373](/us/stat/86/373); [Pub. L. 93–568, § 3(a)](/us/pl/93/568/s3/a), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1862](/us/stat/88/1862); [Pub. L. 94–482, title IV, § 412(a)](/us/pl/94/482/tIV/s412/a), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/90/2234); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692; [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct"
---
# § 1681. Sex

##### § 1681. Sex

(a) Prohibition against discrimination; exceptions No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, except that:

(1) Classes of educational institutions subject to prohibition in regard to admissions to educational institutions, this section shall apply only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, and graduate higher education, and to public institutions of undergraduate higher education;

(2) Educational institutions commencing planned change in admissions in regard to admissions to educational institutions, this section shall not apply (A) for one year from June 23, 1972, nor for six years after June 23, 1972, in the case of an educational institution which has begun the process of changing from being an institution which admits only students of one sex to being an institution which admits students of both sexes, but only if it is carrying out a plan for such a change which is approved by the Secretary of Education or (B) for seven years from the date an educational institution begins the process of changing from being an institution which admits only students of only one sex to being an institution which admits students of both sexes, but only if it is carrying out a plan for such a change which is approved by the Secretary of Education, whichever is the later;

(3) Educational institutions of religious organizations with contrary religious tenets this section shall not apply to an educational institution which is controlled by a religious organization if the application of this subsection would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization;

(4) Educational institutions training individuals for military services or merchant marine this section shall not apply to an educational institution whose primary purpose is the training of individuals for the military services of the United States, or the merchant marine;

(5) Public educational institutions with traditional and continuing admissions policy in regard to admissions this section shall not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education which is an institution that traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting only students of one sex;

(6) Social fraternities or sororities; voluntary youth service organizations this section shall not apply to membership practices—

(A) of a social fraternity or social sorority which is exempt from taxation under [section 501(a) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/a), the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at an institution of higher education, or

(B) of the Young Men’s Christian Association, Young Women’s Christian Association, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, and voluntary youth service organizations which are so exempt, the membership of which has traditionally been limited to persons of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age;

(7) Boy or Girl conferences this section shall not apply to—

(A) any program or activity of the American Legion undertaken in connection with the organization or operation of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference; or

(B) any program or activity of any secondary school or educational institution specifically for—

(i) the promotion of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference; or

(ii) the selection of students to attend any such conference;

(8) Father-son or mother-daughter activities at educational institutions this section shall not preclude father-son or mother-daughter activities at an educational institution, but if such activities are provided for students of one sex, opportunities for reasonably comparable activities shall be provided for students of the other sex; and

(9) Institution of higher education scholarship awards in “beauty” pageants this section shall not apply with respect to any scholarship or other financial assistance awarded by an institution of higher education to any individual because such individual has received such award in any pageant in which the attainment of such award is based upon a combination of factors related to the personal appearance, poise, and talent of such individual and in which participation is limited to individuals of one sex only, so long as such pageant is in compliance with other nondiscrimination provisions of Federal law.

(b) Preferential or disparate treatment because of imbalance in participation or receipt of Federal benefits; statistical evidence of imbalance Nothing contained in subsection (a) of this section shall be interpreted to require any educational institution to grant preferential or disparate treatment to the members of one sex on account of an imbalance which may exist with respect to the total number or percentage of persons of that sex participating in or receiving the benefits of any federally supported program or activity, in comparison with the total number or percentage of persons of that sex in any community, State, section, or other area: *Provided*, That this subsection shall not be construed to prevent the consideration in any hearing or proceeding under this chapter of statistical evidence tending to show that such an imbalance exists with respect to the participation in, or receipt of the benefits of, any such program or activity by the members of one sex.

(c) “Educational institution” defined For purposes of this chapter an educational institution means any public or private preschool, elementary, or secondary school, or any institution of vocational, professional, or higher education, except that in the case of an educational institution composed of more than one school, college, or department which are administratively separate units, such term means each such school, college, or department.

*([Pub. L. 92–318, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/92/318/tIX/s901), June 23, 1972, [86 Stat. 373](/us/stat/86/373); [Pub. L. 93–568, § 3(a)](/us/pl/93/568/s3/a), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1862](/us/stat/88/1862); [Pub. L. 94–482, title IV, § 412(a)](/us/pl/94/482/tIV/s412/a), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/90/2234); [Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301(a)(1)](/us/pl/96/88/tIII/s301/a/1), title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, [93 Stat. 677](/us/stat/93/677), 692; [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c), was in the original “this title”, meaning title IX of [Pub. L. 92–318](/us/pl/92/318) which enacted this chapter and amended sections 203 and 213 of Title 29, Labor, and sections 2000c, 2000c–6, 2000c–9, and 2000h–2 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (a)(6)(A). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

1976—Subsec. (a)(6) to (9). [Pub. L. 94–482](/us/pl/94/482) substituted “this” for “This” in par. (6) and added pars. (7) to (9).

1974—Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 93–568](/us/pl/93/568) added par. (6).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

[Pub. L. 94–482, title IV, § 412(b)](/us/pl/94/482/tIV/s412/b), Oct. 12, 1976, [90 Stat. 2234](/us/stat/90/2234), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect upon the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 12, 1976].”

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendment

[Pub. L. 93–568, § 3(b)](/us/pl/93/568/s3/b), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1862](/us/stat/88/1862), provided that: “The provisions of the amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall be effective on, and retroactive to, July 1, 1972.”

#### Short Title of 1988 Amendment

[Pub. L. 100–259, § 1](/us/pl/100/259/s1), Mar. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 28](/us/stat/102/28), provided that: “This Act [enacting sections 1687 and 1688 of this title and [section 2000d–4a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–4a), The Public Health and Welfare, amending sections 706 and 794 of Title 29, Labor, and [section 6107 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s6107), and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1687 and 1688 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 107–255](/us/pl/107/255), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/116/1734), provided “That title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 ([20 U.S.C. 1681](/us/usc/t20/s1681) et seq.; [Public Law 92–318](/us/pl/92/318)) [title IX of [Pub. L. 92–318](/us/pl/92/318), enacting this chapter and amending sections 203 and 213 of Title 29, Labor, and sections 2000c, 2000c–6, 2000c–9, and 2000h–2 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare] may be cited as the ‘Patsy Takemoto Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act’.”

#### Transfer of Functions

“Secretary” substituted for “Commissioner” in subsec. (a)(2) pursuant to sections 301(a)(1) and 507 of [Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88), which are classified to sections 3441(a)(1) and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions of Commissioner of Education to Secretary of Education.

#### Regulations; Nature of Particular Sports: Intercollegiate Athletic Activities

[Pub. L. 93–380, title VIII, § 844](/us/pl/93/380/tVIII/s844), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 612](/us/stat/88/612), directed Secretary to prepare and publish, not more than 30 days after Aug. 21, 1974, proposed regulations implementing the provisions of this chapter regarding prohibition of sex discrimination in federally assisted programs, including reasonable regulations for intercollegiate athletic activities considering the nature of the particular sports.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Coordination of Implementation and Enforcement of Provisions

For provisions relating to the coordination of implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter by the Attorney General, see section 1–201(b) of Ex. Ord. No. 12250, Nov. 2, 1980, 45 F.R. 72995, set out under [section 2000d–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000d–1), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Executive Order No. 14021

Ex. Ord. No. 14021, Mar. 8, 2021, 86 F.R. 13803, which related to guaranteeing an educational environment free from discrimination on the basis of sex, including sexual orientation or gender identity, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14148, § 2(cc), Jan. 20, 2025, 90 F.R. 8238, and Ex. Ord. No. 14168, § 7(b), Jan. 20, 2025, 90 F.R. 8617.

#### Ex. Ord. No. 14201. Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports

Ex. Ord. No. 14201, Feb. 5, 2025, 90 F.R. 9278, provided:

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to protect opportunities for women and girls to compete in safe and fair sports, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. *Policy and Purpose*. In recent years, many educational institutions and athletic associations have allowed men to compete in women’s sports. This is demeaning, unfair, and dangerous to women and girls, and denies women and girls the equal opportunity to participate and excel in competitive sports.

Moreover, under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act [sic] of 1972 (Title IX) [[20 U.S.C. 1681](/us/usc/t20/s1681) et seq.], educational institutions receiving Federal funds cannot deny women an equal opportunity to participate in sports. As some Federal courts have recognized, “ignoring fundamental biological truths between the two sexes deprives women and girls of meaningful access to educational facilities.” Tennessee v. Cardona, 24-cv-00072 at 73 (E.D. Ky. 2024). See also Kansas v. U.S. Dept. of Education, 24-cv-04041 at 23 (D. Kan. 2024) (highlighting “Congress’ goals of protecting biological women in education”).

Therefore, it is the policy of the United States to rescind all funds from educational programs that deprive women and girls of fair athletic opportunities, which results in the endangerment, humiliation, and silencing of women and girls and deprives them of privacy. It shall also be the policy of the United States to oppose male competitive participation in women’s sports more broadly, as a matter of safety, fairness, dignity, and truth.

Sec. 2. *Definitions*. The definitions in Executive Order 14168 of January 20, 2025 (Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to the Federal Government) [[5 U.S.C. 601](/us/usc/t5/s601) note], shall apply to this order.

Sec. 3. *Preserving Women’s Sports in Education*. (a) In furtherance of the purposes of Title IX, the Secretary of Education shall promptly:

(i) in coordination with the Attorney General, continue to comply with the vacatur of the rule entitled “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance” of April 29, 2024, 89 FR 33474, see Tennessee v. Cardona, 24-cv-00072 at 13-15 (E.D. Ky. 2025), and take other appropriate action to ensure this regulation does not have effect;

(ii) take all appropriate action to affirmatively protect all-female athletic opportunities and all-female locker rooms and thereby provide the equal opportunity guaranteed by Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, including enforcement actions described in subsection (iii); to bring regulations and policy guidance into line with the Congress’ existing demand for “equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes” by clearly specifying and clarifying that women’s sports are reserved for women; and the resolution of pending litigation consistent with this policy; and

(iii) prioritize Title IX enforcement actions against educational institutions (including athletic associations composed of or governed by such institutions) that deny female students an equal opportunity to participate in sports and athletic events by requiring them, in the women’s category, to compete with or against or to appear unclothed before males.

(b) All executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall review grants to educational programs and, where appropriate, rescind funding to programs that fail to comply with the policy established in this order.

(c) The Department of Justice shall provide all necessary resources, in accordance with law, to relevant agencies to ensure expeditious enforcement of the policy established in this order.

Sec. 4. *Preserving Fairness and Safety in Women’s Sports*. Many sport-specific governing bodies have no official position or requirements regarding trans-identifying athletes. Others allow men to compete in women’s categories if these men reduce the testosterone in their bodies below certain levels or provide documentation of “sincerely held” gender identity. These policies are unfair to female athletes and do not protect female safety. To address these concerns, it is hereby ordered:

(a) The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall, within 60 days of the date of this order [Feb. 5, 2025]:

(i) convene representatives of major athletic organizations and governing bodies, and female athletes harmed by such policies, to promote policies that are fair and safe, in the best interests of female athletes, and consistent with the requirements of Title IX, as applicable; and

(ii) convene State Attorneys General to identify best practices in defining and enforcing equal opportunities for women to participate in sports and educate them about stories of women and girls who have been harmed by male participation in women’s sports.

(b) The Secretary of State, including through the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs’ Sports Diplomacy Division and the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, shall:

(i) rescind support for and participation in people-to-people sports exchanges or other sports programs within which the relevant female sports category is based on identity and not sex; and

(ii) promote, including at the United Nations, international rules and norms governing sports competition to protect a sex-based female sports category, and, at the discretion of the Secretary of State, convene international athletic organizations and governing bodies, and female athletes harmed by policies that allow male participation in women’s sports, to promote sporting policies that are fair, safe, and in furtherance of the best interests of female athletes.

(c) The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall review and adjust, as needed, policies permitting admission to the United States of males seeking to participate in women’s sports, and shall issue guidance with an objective of preventing such entry to the extent permitted by law, including pursuant to section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ([8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(C)(i)](/us/usc/t8/s1182/a/6/C/i)).

(d) The Secretary of State shall use all appropriate and available measures to see that the International Olympic Committee amends the standards governing Olympic sporting events to promote fairness, safety, and the best interests of female athletes by ensuring that eligibility for participation in women’s sporting events is determined according to sex and not gender identity or testosterone reduction.

Sec. 5. *General Provisions*. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(d) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
