---
title: "§ 18937. Artificial intelligence"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18937"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18937"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10232(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10232/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1484](/us/stat/136/1484).)"
---
# § 18937. Artificial intelligence

##### § 18937. Artificial intelligence

(1) expanding the Institute’s capabilities, including scientific staff and research infrastructure;

(2) supporting measurement research and development for advanced computer chips and hardware designed for artificial intelligence systems;

(3) supporting the development of technical standards and guidelines that promote safe and trustworthy artificial intelligence systems, such as enhancing the accuracy, explainability, privacy, reliability, robustness, safety, security, and mitigation of harmful bias in artificial intelligence systems;

(4) creating a framework for managing risks associated with artificial intelligence systems; and

(5) developing and publishing cybersecurity tools, encryption methods, and best practices for artificial intelligence and data science.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title II, § 10232(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tII/s10232/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1484](/us/stat/136/1484).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020, referred to in introductory provisions of subsec. (a), is div. E of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4523](/us/stat/134/4523), which is classified principally to chapter 119 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of div. E to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 9401 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s9401) and Tables.

Division E of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, referred to in introductory provisions of subsec. (a), is div. E of [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3388](/us/stat/134/3388), also known as the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
