---
title: "§ 1665c. Interest rate reduction on open end consumer credit plans"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1665c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1665c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–321, title I, § 148](/us/pl/90/321/tI/s148), as added [Pub. L. 111–24, title I, § 101(c)](/us/pl/111/24/tI/s101/c), May 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/123/1737); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1100A(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1100A/2), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2107](/us/stat/124/2107).)"
---
# § 1665c. Interest rate reduction on open end consumer credit plans

##### § 1665c. Interest rate reduction on open end consumer credit plans

(a) In general If a creditor increases the annual percentage rate applicable to a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan, based on factors including the credit risk of the obligor, market conditions, or other factors, the creditor shall consider changes in such factors in subsequently determining whether to reduce the annual percentage rate for such obligor.

(b) Requirements With respect to any credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan, the creditor shall—

(1) maintain reasonable methodologies for assessing the factors described in subsection (a);

(2) not less frequently than once every 6 months, review accounts as to which the annual percentage rate has been increased since January 1, 2009, to assess whether such factors have changed (including whether any risk has declined);

(3) reduce the annual percentage rate previously increased when a reduction is indicated by the review; and

(4) in the event of an increase in the annual percentage rate, provide in the written notice required under [section 1637(i) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1637/i) a statement of the reasons for the increase.

(c) Rule of construction This section shall not be construed to require a reduction in any specific amount.

(d) Rulemaking The Bureau 11 So in original. Probably should be “Board”. shall issue final rules not later than 9 months after May 22, 2009, to implement the requirements of and evaluate compliance with this section, and subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall become effective 15 months after May 22, 2009.

*([Pub. L. 90–321, title I, § 148](/us/pl/90/321/tI/s148), as added [Pub. L. 111–24, title I, § 101(c)](/us/pl/111/24/tI/s101/c), May 22, 2009, [123 Stat. 1737](/us/stat/123/1737); amended [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1100A(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1100A/2), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2107](/us/stat/124/2107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2010—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) substituted “Bureau” for “Board”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Effective Date

Section effective 9 months after May 22, 2009, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–24](/us/pl/111/24/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under [section 1602 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1602).
