---
title: "§ 1806. Visa integrity fee"
identifier: "USC-T8-S1806"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title8-section1806"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "8"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100007](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100007), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 370](/us/stat/139/370).)"
---
# § 1806. Visa integrity fee

##### § 1806. Visa integrity fee

(a) Visa integrity fee

(1) In general In addition to any other fee authorized by law, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall require the payment of a fee, equal to the amount specified in this subsection, by any alien issued a nonimmigrant visa at the time of such issuance.

(2) Initial amount For fiscal year 2025, the amount specified in this section shall be the greater of—

(A) $250; or

(B) such amount as the Secretary of Homeland Security may establish, by rule.

(3) Annual adjustments for inflation During fiscal year 2026, and during each subsequent fiscal year, the amount specified in this section shall be equal to the sum of—

(A) the amount of the fee required under this subsection for the most recently concluded fiscal year; and

(B) the product resulting from the multiplication of the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) by the percentage (if any) by which the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the month of July preceding the date on which such adjustment takes effect exceeds the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the same month of the preceding calendar year, rounded down to the nearest dollar.

(4) Disposition of visa integrity fees All of the fees collected pursuant to this section that are not reimbursed pursuant to subsection (b) shall be deposited into the general fund of the Treasury.

(5) No fee waiver Fees required to be paid under this subsection shall not be waived or reduced.

(b) Fee reimbursement The Secretary of Homeland Security may provide a reimbursement to an alien of the fee required under subsection (a) for the issuance of a nonimmigrant visa after the expiration of such nonimmigrant visa’s period of validity if such alien demonstrates that he or she—

(1) after admission to the United States pursuant to such nonimmigrant visa, complied with all conditions of such nonimmigrant visa, including the condition that an alien shall not accept unauthorized employment; and

(2)

(A) has not sought to extend his or her period of admission during such period of validity and departed the United States not later than 5 days after the last day of such period; or

(B) during such period of validity, was granted an extension of such nonimmigrant status or an adjustment to the status of a lawful permanent resident.

*([Pub. L. 119–21, title X, § 100007](/us/pl/119/21/tX/s100007), July 4, 2025, [139 Stat. 370](/us/stat/139/370).)*
