---
title: "§ 18911. Basic energy sciences program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S18911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section18911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10102](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10102), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/136/1409).)"
---
# § 18911. Basic energy sciences program

##### § 18911. Basic energy sciences program

(a) to (c) Omitted

(d) Foundational nuclear science

(1) In general The Director of the Office of Science shall support a program of research and development to bridge scientific barriers to, and expand theoretical and fundamental knowledge relevant to, understanding nuclear materials and matter for the benefit of commerce, medicine, and national security.

(2) Activities As part of the program described in paragraph (1)—

(A) the Director of the Office of Science shall support basic research to pursue distinct lines of scientific inquiry, including—

(i) research in nuclear materials science, including the application of advanced computing practices to foundational and emerging research areas in nuclear materials science and discovery, such as—

(I) the advanced characterization of materials;

(II) materials synthesis;

(III) processing;

(IV) the innovative use of experimental and theoretical data; and

(V) mechanical behavior in unique environments, including the effects of radiation;

(ii) electrochemistry research and associated techniques for processing nuclear materials;

(iii) the development of advanced instrumentation and nuclear data collection to inform the activities described in clauses (i) and (ii); and

(iv) any other area of research, as determined by the Director of the Office of Science; and

(B) the Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy shall consult with the Director of the Office of Science to support the direction of translational research, development, and validation of physical concepts developed under the program.

(3) Funding Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for basic energy sciences in a fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy to carry out activities under this subsection $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

(e) Carbon Materials Science Initiative

(1) Initiative

(A) In general The Director of the Office of Science (referred to in this subsection as the “Director”) shall establish a research initiative, to be known as the “Carbon Materials Science Initiative” (referred to in this subsection as the “Initiative”), to expand the fundamental knowledge of coal, coal-wastes, and carbon ore chemistry useful for understanding the conversion of carbon to material products.

(B) Coordination In carrying out programs and activities under the Initiative, the Director shall leverage expertise and resources from the Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management and the United States Geological Survey.

(C) Teams

(i) In general In carrying out the Initiative, the Director shall establish and organize activities among multidisciplinary teams to leverage, to the maximum extent practicable, expertise from the National Laboratories, institutions of higher education, and the private sector.

(ii) Goals The multidisciplinary teams described in clause (i) shall pursue expedient, milestone-driven research goals established by the Director.

(2) Research program

(A) In general The Director shall carry out under the Initiative a program to support, and discover fundamental knowledge relevant to, carbon materials and carbon ore processing research.

(B) Activities As part of the program described in subparagraph (A), the Director shall, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Fossil Energy and Carbon Management, as appropriate, support research to pursue distinct lines of scientific inquiry, including—

(i) methods of extraction, processing, recycling, and utilization of the materials and valuable minerals contained in raw coal and coal-waste;

(ii) methods of improving performance, cost, and availability of materials for use in carbon capture systems; and

(iii) unconventional pathways and materials for conversion of carbon dioxide molecules, minerals, and materials.

(C) Review The Director shall periodically review activities carried out under the program described in subparagraph (A) to evaluate the achievement of scientific objectives and research milestones.

(D) Coordination with existing programs and centers In carrying out the program described in subparagraph (A), the Director shall—

(i) ensure coordination and knowledge sharing with—

(I) the United States Geological Survey; and

(II) the programs and the Carbon Utilization Research Center established under [section 16298a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16298a); and

(ii) avoid duplication of efforts to the maximum extent practicable.

(3) Carbon Materials Research Centers

(A) In general In carrying out the activities authorized under paragraph (2), the Director shall establish 1 center in each of the 2 major coal-producing regions of the United States, each of which shall—

(i) be known as a “Carbon Materials Research Center” (referred to in this paragraph as a “Center”); and

(ii) focus on early stage research and development activities, including—

(I) developing and advancing methods of extracting, processing, or recycling carbon or other valuable materials or minerals from raw coal, coal-waste, or other solid carbon materials, for the development of new carbon-based materials;

(II) methods of improving the structural, physical, and chemical properties of carbon-based materials or other valuable materials from raw coal, coal-waste, or other solid carbon materials and their recyclability;

(III) overcoming the challenges and maximizing the benefits of commercially extracting, producing, or improving coal-derived carbon and resulting products; and

(IV) identifying novel pathways and materials for carbon storage and conversion into useful products.

(B) Selection The Director shall—

(i) select Centers under subparagraph (A) on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis; and

(ii) consider applications from the National Laboratories, institutions of higher education, multi-institutional collaborations, and other appropriate entities.

(C) Duration A Center shall receive support for a period of not more than 5 years beginning on the date of establishment of that Center, subject to the availability of appropriations.

(D) Renewal On the expiration of any period of support of a Center, the Director may renew support for that Center, on a merit-reviewed basis, for a period of not more than 5 years.

(E) Existing facilities The Director shall—

(i) ensure that the research activities carried out by the Centers are not duplicative of existing efforts; and

(ii) if practicable, leverage existing user facilities and other capabilities of the Department of Energy to carry out the research objectives of the Centers.

(f) Carbon Sequestration Research and Geologic Computational Science Initiative

(1) Initiative

(A) In general The Secretary of Energy (referred to in this subsection as the “Secretary”) shall establish a research initiative, to be known as the “Carbon Sequestration Research and Geologic Computational Science Initiative” (referred to in this subsection as the “Initiative”), to expand the fundamental knowledge, data collection, data analysis, and modeling of subsurface geology for the purpose of advancing carbon sequestration in geologic formations.

(B) Leveraging In carrying out programs and activities under the Initiative, the Secretary shall leverage expertise and resources from the Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management and the United States Geological Survey.

(C) Teams

(i) In general In carrying out the Initiative, the Secretary shall establish and organize activities among multidisciplinary teams to leverage, to the maximum extent practicable, expertise from the National Laboratories, institutions of higher education, and the private sector.

(ii) Goals The multidisciplinary teams described in clause (i) shall pursue aggressive, milestone-driven research goals established by the Secretary.

(D) Additional activities The Secretary may organize additional activities under this subsection through other organizational structures.

(2) Research program

(A) In general The Secretary shall carry out under the Initiative a program to support research needed for, and discover knowledge relevant to, the sequestration of carbon in geologic formations.

(B) Activities As part of the program described in subparagraph (A), the Director of the Office of Science shall support fundamental research to pursue distinct lines of scientific inquiry, including—

(i) gathering geologic data for pore space characterization, including improvements to geologic seismic imaging;

(ii) evaluating pore space quality, including evaluation of geologic samples, to determine appropriate sequestration zones for carbon;

(iii) testing carbon sequestration;

(iv) monitoring carbon migration in geologic formations;

(v) advancements in data analytics, including the analysis of seismic data, and computational science to improve the advanced computing, visualization, and imaging of geologic formations for the sequestration of carbon; and

(vi) predictive understanding of coupled processes in complex subsurface geologic systems for secure carbon storage.

(C) Review The Secretary shall periodically review activities carried out under the program described in subparagraph (A) to evaluate achievement of scientific objectives and research milestones.

(3) Carbon storage research and geologic computational science centers

(A) In general In carrying out the activities authorized under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall select and establish not more than 2 carbon storage research and geologic computational science centers (referred to in this paragraph as a “Center”) to develop and advance improvements to data collection, analysis, and modeling of subsurface geology for the purpose of advancing carbon sequestration in geologic formations.

(B) Selection

(i) In general The Secretary shall—

(I) select Centers under subparagraph (A) on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis; and

(II) to the maximum extent practicable, locate each Center in a geographically diverse region with established and ongoing geologic carbon sequestration research and demonstration.

(ii) Applications In selecting Centers under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider applications from institutions of higher education, multi-institutional collaborations, and other appropriate entities.

(C) Duration

(i) New Centers A Center established after August 9, 2022, shall receive support for a period of not more than 5 years beginning on the date of establishment of that Center, subject to the availability of appropriations.

(ii) Existing Centers A Center already in existence on August 9, 2022, may continue to receive support for a period of not more than 5 years beginning on August 9, 2022.

(iii) Renewal On expiration of a period of support described in clause (i) or (ii), the Secretary may renew support for the Center, on a merit-reviewed basis, for a period of not more than 5 years.

(4) Coordination with existing programs and Centers In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall—

(A) ensure coordination with—

(i) the United States Geological Survey; and

(ii) the programs established under [section 16293 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16293); and

(B) avoid duplication of efforts to the maximum extent practicable.

(g) Funding for Carbon Initiatives Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for basic energy sciences in a fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out activities under subsections (e) and (f) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title I, § 10102](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tI/s10102), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1409](/us/stat/136/1409).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 10102 of div. B of Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167/dB/s10102). Subsecs. (a), (b), and (c) of [section 10102 of div. B of Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167/dB/s10102) amended sections 18641, 16313, and 16315 of this title, respectively.
