---
title: "§ 3302. Identification of constituent components of base intelligence budget"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–359, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/103/359/tVI/s603), Oct. 14, 1994, [108 Stat. 3433](/us/stat/108/3433).)"
---
# § 3302. Identification of constituent components of base intelligence budget

##### § 3302. Identification of constituent components of base intelligence budget

The Director of Central Intelligence shall include the same level of budgetary detail for the Base Budget that is provided for Ongoing Initiatives and New Initiatives to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate in the congressional justification materials for the annual submission of the National Foreign Intelligence Program of each fiscal year.

*([Pub. L. 103–359, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/103/359/tVI/s603), Oct. 14, 1994, [108 Stat. 3433](/us/stat/108/3433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 403–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403–1) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
