---
title: "§§ 615 to 615e. Omitted"
identifier: "USC-T43-S615...615e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section615...615e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
---
# §§ 615 to 615e. Omitted

##### §§ 615 to 615e. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section 615, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 1](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s1), [70 Stat. 28](/us/stat/70/28), authorized construction, operation, and maintenance of Washita River Basin Project, Oklahoma.

Section 615a, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 2](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s2), [70 Stat. 28](/us/stat/70/28), related to allocation of construction costs, adjustments, and repayment of construction costs.

Section 615b, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 3](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s3), [70 Stat. 30](/us/stat/70/30), required construction in units or stages.

Section 615c, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 4](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s4), [70 Stat. 30](/us/stat/70/30), related to construction, operation, and maintenance of public parks and recreational facilities on lands adjacent to Washita project.

Section 615d, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 5](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s5), [70 Stat. 30](/us/stat/70/30), related to expenditures for Foss and Fort Cobb Reservoirs.

Section 615e, [act Feb. 25, 1956, ch. 71, § 6](/us/act/1956-02-25/ch71/s6), [70 Stat. 30](/us/stat/70/30), related to authorization of appropriations for this project.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Foss Reservoir Master Conservancy District; Feasibility Study; Revision of Repayment Contract

[Pub. L. 90–311](/us/pl/90/311), May 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 124](/us/stat/82/124), directed Secretary of the Interior to conduct feasibility studies in areas serving Foss Reservoir Master Conservancy District to determine alternative water sources and methods of alleviating problems associated with poor quality and supply of water stored in Foss Reservoir, provided for assistance to Foss Reservoir Master Conservancy District in developing an adequate interim water supply, and authorized Secretary to use any available funds to carry out this Act.
