---
title: "§ 3936. Statute of limitations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3936"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3936"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title II, § 206, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2844](/us/stat/117/2844).)"
---
# § 3936. Statute of limitations

##### § 3936. Statute of limitations

(a) Tolling of statutes of limitation during military service The period of a servicemember’s military service may not be included in computing any period limited by law, regulation, or order for the bringing of any action or proceeding in a court, or in any board, bureau, commission, department, or other agency of a State (or political subdivision of a State) or the United States by or against the servicemember or the servicemember’s heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns.

(b) Redemption of real property A period of military service may not be included in computing any period provided by law for the redemption of real property sold or forfeited to enforce an obligation, tax, or assessment.

(c) Inapplicability to internal revenue laws This section does not apply to any period of limitation prescribed by or under the internal revenue laws of the United States.

*([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), title II, § 206, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1](/us/pl/108/189/s1), Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2844](/us/stat/117/2844).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 526 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 206 of [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888](/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888), art. II, as added [Oct. 6, 1942, ch. 581, § 6](/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581/s6), [56 Stat. 771](/us/stat/56/771); amended [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(7)](/us/pl/102/12/s9/7), Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 39](/us/stat/105/39), related to maximum rate of interest, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189). See [section 3937 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3937).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to any case not final before Dec. 19, 2003, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–189](/us/pl/108/189/s3), set out as a note under [section 3901 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3901).
