---
title: "§ 3373a. Support for and oversight of Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3373a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3373a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tIV/s413), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 977](/us/stat/136/977).)"
---
# § 3373a. Support for and oversight of Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force

##### § 3373a. Support for and oversight of Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force

(a) Availability of data on unidentified aerial phenomena The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly require that each element of the intelligence community and component of the Department of Defense with data relating to unidentified aerial phenomena makes 11 So in original. Probably should be “make”. such data available immediately to the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force, or successor entity, and to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center.

(b) Quarterly reports

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after March 15, 2022, and not less frequently than quarterly thereafter, the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force, or successor entity, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the findings of the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force, or successor entity.

(2) Contents Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the following:

(A) All reported unidentified aerial phenomena-related events that occurred during the period covered by the report.

(B) All reported unidentified aerial phenomena-related events that occurred during a period other than the period covered by the report but were not included in an earlier report.

(3) Form Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in classified form.

(c) Definitions In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the following:

(A) The congressional intelligence committees.

(B) The Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

(2) Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force The term “Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force” means the task force established by the Department of Defense on August 4, 2020, to be led by the Department of the Navy, under the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.

*([Pub. L. 117–103, div. X, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/117/103/dX/tIV/s413), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 977](/us/stat/136/977).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “congressional intelligence committees” and “intelligence community”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. X of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dX/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
