---
title: "§ 6981. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6981"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6981"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 261](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s261), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3227](/us/stat/108/3227).)"
---
# § 6981. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety

##### § 6981. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety

(a) Establishment There is established in the Department of Agriculture the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety. The Under Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among individuals with specialized training or significant experience in food safety or public health programs.

(b) Functions of Under Secretary

(1) Principal functions The Secretary shall delegate to the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety those functions and duties under the jurisdiction of the Department that are primarily related to food safety.

(2) Additional functions The Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety shall perform such other functions and duties as may be required by law or prescribed by the Secretary.

(c) Omitted

(d) Technical and scientific review groups The Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics, may, without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointment in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates—

(1) establish such technical and scientific review groups as are needed to carry out the functions of the Department; and

(2) appoint and pay the members of the groups, except that officers and employees of the United States shall not receive additional compensation for service as a member of a group.

*([Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 261](/us/pl/103/354/tII/s261), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3227](/us/stat/108/3227).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 261 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s261). Subsec. (c) of [section 261 of Pub. L. 103–354](/us/pl/103/354/s261) amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees.
