---
title: "§ 2332. Sense of Congress concerning criminal penalties"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2332"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2332"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1423](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1423), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2725](/us/stat/110/2725); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1069(c)(1)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1069/c/1), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2136](/us/stat/112/2136).)"
---
# § 2332. Sense of Congress concerning criminal penalties

##### § 2332. Sense of Congress concerning criminal penalties

(a) Sense of Congress concerning inadequacy of sentencing guidelines It is the sense of Congress that the sentencing guidelines prescribed by the United States Sentencing Commission for the offenses of importation, attempted importation, exportation, and attempted exportation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons materials constitute inadequate punishment for such offenses.

(b) Urging of revision to guidelines Congress urges the United States Sentencing Commission to revise the relevant sentencing guidelines to provide for increased penalties for offenses relating to importation, attempted importation, exportation, and attempted exportation of nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons or related materials or technologies under the following provisions of law:

(1) Section 4610 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(2) Sections 2778 and 2780 of title 22.

(3) The International Emergency Economic Powers Act ([50 U.S.C. 1701](/us/usc/t50/s1701) et seq.).

(4) [Section 2139a(c) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2139a/c).

*([Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, § 1423](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXIV/s1423), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2725](/us/stat/110/2725); [Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1069(c)(1)](/us/pl/105/261/dA/tX/s1069/c/1), Oct. 17, 1998, [112 Stat. 2136](/us/stat/112/2136).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 4610 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4610), referred to in subsec. (b)(1), was repealed by [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XVII, § 1766(a)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tXVII/s1766/a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/132/2232).

The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is title II of [Pub. L. 95–223](/us/pl/95/223), Dec. 28, 1977, [91 Stat. 1626](/us/stat/91/1626), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 1423 of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1423) which also enacted provisions listed in a table of sentencing guidelines set out as a note under [section 994 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s994), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### Amendments

1998—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 105–261](/us/pl/105/261) made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to [section 2139a(c) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2139a/c).
