---
title: "§ 2033. Election of survivor benefits for certain former spouses divorced as of November 15, 1982"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2033"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2033"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 223](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s223), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3216](/us/stat/106/3216).)"
---
# § 2033. Election of survivor benefits for certain former spouses divorced as of November 15, 1982

##### § 2033. Election of survivor benefits for certain former spouses divorced as of November 15, 1982

(a) Former spouses as of November 15, 1982 A participant, former participant, or retired participant in the system who on November 15, 1982, had a former spouse may, by a spousal agreement, elect to receive a reduced annuity and provide a survivor annuity for such former spouse under [section 2032(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2032/b).

(b) Time for making election

(1) If the participant or former participant has not retired under such system on or before November 15, 1982, an election under this section may be made at any time before retirement.

(2) If the participant or former participant has retired under such system on or before November 15, 1982, an election under this section may be made within such period after November 15, 1982, as the Director may prescribe.

(3) For the purposes of applying this subchapter, any such election shall be treated in the same manner as if it were a spousal agreement under [section 2094(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2094/b).

(c) Base for annuity An election under this section may provide for a survivor annuity based on all or any portion of that part of the annuity of the participant which is not designated or committed as a base for a survivor annuity for a spouse or any other former spouse of the participant. The participant and the participant’s spouse may make an election under [section 2031(b)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/b/1/B) before the time of retirement for the purpose of allowing an election to be made under this section.

(d) Reduction in participant’s annuity

(1) Computation The amount of the reduction in the participant’s annuity shall be determined in accordance with [section 2031(b)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2031/b/2).

(2) Effective date of reduction Such reduction shall be effective as of—

(A) the commencing date of the participant’s annuity, in the case of an election under subsection (b)(1); or

(B) November 15, 1982, in the case of an election under subsection (b)(2).

*([Pub. L. 88–643, title II, § 223](/us/pl/88/643/tII/s223), as added [Pub. L. 102–496, title VIII, § 802](/us/pl/102/496/tVIII/s802), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3216](/us/stat/106/3216).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 223 of Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643/s223), as added [Pub. L. 97–269, title VI, § 607](/us/pl/97/269/tVI/s607), Sept. 27, 1982, [96 Stat. 1151](/us/stat/96/1151); amended [Pub. L. 99–335, title V, § 501(2)](/us/pl/99/335/tV/s501/2), June 6, 1986, [100 Stat. 622](/us/stat/100/622), related to election of survivor benefits for certain former spouses and was set out as a note under [section 403 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403) prior to the general amendment of [Pub. L. 88–643](/us/pl/88/643) by [section 802 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s802).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on first day of fourth month beginning after Oct. 24, 1992, see [section 805 of Pub. L. 102–496](/us/pl/102/496/s805), set out as a note under [section 2001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2001).
