---
title: "§ 19033. Reporting to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T42-S19033"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section19033"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10333](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10333), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/136/1552).)"
---
# § 19033. Reporting to Congress

##### § 19033. Reporting to Congress

(a) Report on resource needs Not later than 180 days after August 9, 2022, the Director shall provide a report to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate on the resources and the number of full time 11 So in original. Probably should be “full-time”. employees needed to carry out the functions of the office established in [section 19031 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s19031).

(b) Annual report on Office activities

(1) In general Not later than one year after August 9, 2022, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to Congress a report on the activities carried out by the Office of Research Security, detailing—

(A) a description of the activities conducted by the Office, including administrative actions taken;

(B) such recommendations as the Director may have for legislative or administrative action relating to improving research security;

(C) identification and discussion of the gaps in legal authorities that need to be improved to enhance the security of institutions of higher education performing research supported by the Foundation; and

(D) information on Foundation Inspector General cases, as appropriate, relating to undue influence and security threats to research and development activities funded by the Foundation, including theft of property or intellectual property relating to a project funded by the Foundation at an institution of higher education.

(2) Form The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in both unclassified and classified formats, as appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title III, § 10333](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tIII/s10333), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1552](/us/stat/136/1552).)*
