---
title: "§ 8452. Broadband internet connectivity at developed recreation sites"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8452"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8452"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 142](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s142), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2864](/us/stat/138/2864).)"
---
# § 8452. Broadband internet connectivity at developed recreation sites

##### § 8452. Broadband internet connectivity at developed recreation sites

(a) In general The Secretary and the Chief of the Forest Service shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Commerce to foster the installation or construction of broadband internet infrastructure at developed recreation sites on Federal recreational lands and waters to establish broadband internet connectivity—

(1) subject to the availability of appropriations; and

(2) in accordance with applicable law.

(b) Identification Not later than 3 years after January 4, 2025, and annually thereafter through fiscal year 2031, the Secretary and the Chief of the Forest Service, in coordination with States and local communities, shall make publicly available—

(1) a list of the highest priority developed recreation sites, as determined under subsection (c), on Federal recreational lands and waters that lack broadband internet;

(2) to the extent practicable, an estimate of—

(A) the cost to equip each of those sites with broadband internet infrastructure; and

(B) the annual cost to operate that infrastructure; and

(3) a list of potential—

(A) barriers to operating the infrastructure described in paragraph (2)(A); and

(B) methods to recover the costs of that operation.

(c) Priorities In selecting developed recreation sites for the list described in subsection (b)(1), the Secretary and the Chief of the Forest Service shall give priority to developed recreation sites—

(1) at which broadband internet infrastructure has not been constructed due to—

(A) geographic challenges; or

(B) the location having an insufficient number of nearby permanent residents, despite high seasonal or daily visitation levels; or

(2) that are located in an economically distressed county that could benefit significantly from developing the outdoor recreation economy of the county.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title I, § 142](/us/pl/118/234/tI/s142), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2864](/us/stat/138/2864).)*
