---
title: "§ 701b–4. Administration of surveys; number authorized; reports"
identifier: "USC-T33-S701b–4"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section701b–4"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 699, § 6](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch699/s6), [53 Stat. 1415](/us/stat/53/1415); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 701b–4. Administration of surveys; number authorized; reports

##### § 701b–4. Administration of surveys; number authorized; reports

The surveys authorized to be performed under the direction of the Secretary of the Army as well as all duties performed by the Chief of Engineers under the direction of the Secretary of the Army shall be functions of the Engineer Corps, United States Army, and its head, to be administered under the direction of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers except as otherwise specifically provided by Congress: *Provided*, That the power and authority conferred by the Flood Control Act of June 28, 1938, and previously conferred, upon the Federal Power Commission shall remain in full force and effect: *Provided*, That no preliminary examination, survey, project, or estimate for new works other than those designated in this Act or some prior Act or joint resolution shall be made: *Provided further*, That after the regular or formal reports made as required by law on any examination, survey, project, or work under way or proposed, are submitted, no supplemental or additional report or estimate shall be made unless authorized by law.

*([Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 699, § 6](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch699/s6), [53 Stat. 1415](/us/stat/53/1415); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Flood Control Act of June 28, 1938, referred to in text, is [act June 28, 1938, ch. 795](/us/act/1938-06-28/ch795), [52 Stat. 1215](/us/stat/52/1215), which to the extent classified to the Code is classified to sections 701b, 701b–1, 701b–2, 701c–1, 701f–1, 701i, 701j, 702a–1½, 702a–11, and 706 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

This Act, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 699](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch699), [53 Stat. 1414](/us/stat/53/1414), which to the extent classified to the Code enacted sections 558b–1, 701b–3, 701b–4, and 707 of this title and amended sections 701c–1 and 701g of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

#### Transfer of Functions

The Federal Power Commission was terminated, and its functions, personnel, property, funds, etc., were transferred to the Secretary of Energy (except for certain functions which were transferred to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) by sections 7151(b), 7171(a), 7172(a), 7291, and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Federal Power Commission, with certain reservations, to chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 9 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/64/1265), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
