---
title: "§ 20988. Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant Program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20988"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20988"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 631](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s631), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 641](/us/stat/120/641).)"
---
# § 20988. Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant Program

##### § 20988. Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant Program

(a) Establishment There is established the Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant Program (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Program”).

(b) Grants authorized Under the Program, the Attorney General is authorized to award grants to State,11 So in original. Probably should be “States,”. local governments, and Indian tribal governments to assist in carrying out programs requiring an appropriate official to verify, at appropriate intervals, the residence of all or some registered sex offenders.

(c) Application

(1) In general Each State or local government seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.

(2) Contents Each application submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—

(A) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

(B) provide such additional assurances as the Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.

(d) Innovation In making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall ensure that different approaches to address verification are funded to allow an assessment of effectiveness.

(e) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years 2007 through 2009 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(2) Report Not later than April 1, 2009, the Attorney General shall report to Congress—

(A) assessing the effectiveness and value of this section;

(B) comparing the cost effectiveness of address verification to reduce sex offenses compared to other alternatives; and

(C) making recommendations for continuing funding and the appropriate levels for such funding.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 631](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s631), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 641](/us/stat/120/641).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16988 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16988), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
