---
title: "§ 300jj–16. Voluntary application and use of adopted standards and implementation specifications by private entities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300jj–16"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300jj–16"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3006, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13101](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13101), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 241](/us/stat/123/241).)"
---
# § 300jj–16. Voluntary application and use of adopted standards and implementation specifications by private entities

##### § 300jj–16. Voluntary application and use of adopted standards and implementation specifications by private entities

(a) In general Except as provided under section 13112 of the HITECH Act [[42 U.S.C. 17902](/us/usc/t42/s17902)], nothing in such Act or in the amendments made by such Act shall be construed—

(1) to require a private entity to adopt or comply with a standard or implementation specification adopted under [section 300jj–14 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–14); or

(2) to provide a Federal agency authority, other than the authority such agency may have under other provisions of law, to require a private entity to comply with such a standard or implementation specification.

(b) Rule of construction Nothing in this part shall be construed to require that a private entity that enters into a contract with the Federal Government apply or use the standards and implementation specifications adopted under [section 300jj–14 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300jj–14) with respect to activities not related to the contract.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXX, § 3006, as added [Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13101](/us/pl/111/5/dA/tXIII/s13101), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 241](/us/stat/123/241).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The HITECH Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title XIII of div. A and title IV of div. B of [Pub. L. 111–5](/us/pl/111/5), Feb. 17, 2009, [123 Stat. 226](/us/stat/123/226), 467, also known as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2009 Amendment note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.
