---
title: "§ 2603. Uniform settlement statement"
identifier: "USC-T12-S2603"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section2603"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–533, § 4](/us/pl/93/533/s4), Dec. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/88/1725); [Pub. L. 94–205, § 3](/us/pl/94/205/s3), Jan. 2, 1976, [89 Stat. 1157](/us/stat/89/1157); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, § 2103(g)(1)](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tII/s2103/g/1), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–401](/us/stat/110/3009-401); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098/2), title XIV, § 1475, July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2103](/us/stat/124/2103), 2200; [Pub. L. 116–342, § 2(b)](/us/"
---
# § 2603. Uniform settlement statement

##### § 2603. Uniform settlement statement

(a) Disclosure for mortgage loan transactions The Bureau shall publish a single, integrated disclosure for mortgage loan transactions (including real estate settlement cost statements) which includes the disclosure requirements of this section and [section 2604 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2604), in conjunction with the disclosure requirements of the Truth in Lending Act [[15 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t15/s1601) et seq.] that, taken together, may apply to a transaction that is subject to both or either provisions of law. The purpose of such model disclosure shall be to facilitate compliance with the disclosure requirements of this chapter 11 See References in Text note below. and the Truth in Lending Act, and to aid the borrower or lessee in understanding the transaction by utilizing readily understandable language to simplify the technical nature of the disclosures. Such forms shall conspicuously and clearly itemize all charges imposed upon the borrower and all charges imposed upon the seller in connection with the settlement and shall indicate whether any title insurance premium included in such charges covers or insures the lender’s interest in the property, the borrower’s interest, or both. The Bureau may, by regulation, permit the deletion from the forms prescribed under this section of items which are not, under local laws or customs, applicable in any locality, except that such regulation shall require that the numerical code prescribed by the Bureau be retained in forms to be used in all localities. Nothing in this section may be construed to require that that part of the standard forms which relates to the borrower’s transaction be furnished to the seller, or to require that that part of the standard forms which relates to the seller be furnished to the borrower.

(b) Availability for inspection; exceptions The forms prescribed under this section shall be completed and made available for inspection by the borrower at or before settlement by the person conducting the settlement, except that (1) the Bureau may exempt from the requirements of this section settlements occurring in localities where the final settlement statement is not customarily provided at or before the date of settlement, or settlements where such requirements are impractical and (2) the borrower may, in accordance with regulations of the Bureau, waive his right to have the forms made available at such time. Upon the request of the borrower to inspect the forms prescribed under this section during the business day immediately preceding the day of settlement, the person who will conduct the settlement shall permit the borrower to inspect those items which are known to such person during such preceding day.

(c) Disclosure of fees The standard form described in subsection (a) may include, in the case of an appraisal coordinated by an appraisal management company (as such term is defined in [section 3350(11) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s3350/11)), a clear disclosure of—

(1) the fee paid directly to the appraiser by such company; and

(2) the administration fee charged by such company.

(d) Disclosure for charitable mortgage loan transactions With respect to a mortgage loan transaction involving a residential mortgage loan offered at 0 percent interest with only bonafide and reasonable fees and that is primarily for charitable purposes, an organization described in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such title may use forms HUD–1 and GFE (as defined under section 1024.2(b) of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations) together with a disclosure substantially in the form of the Loan Model Form H–2 (as depicted in Appendix H to part 1026 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations), collectively, in lieu of the disclosure published under subsection (a) of this section.

*([Pub. L. 93–533, § 4](/us/pl/93/533/s4), Dec. 22, 1974, [88 Stat. 1725](/us/stat/88/1725); [Pub. L. 94–205, § 3](/us/pl/94/205/s3), Jan. 2, 1976, [89 Stat. 1157](/us/stat/89/1157); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, § 2103(g)(1)](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tII/s2103/g/1), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–401](/us/stat/110/3009-401); [Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1098(2)](/us/pl/111/203/tX/s1098/2), title XIV, § 1475, July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2103](/us/stat/124/2103), 2200; [Pub. L. 116–342, § 2(b)](/us/pl/116/342/s2/b), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5134](/us/stat/134/5134).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Truth in Lending Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title I of [Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321), May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 146](/us/stat/82/146), which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1601 et seq.) of chapter 41 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601) and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title” and was translated as reading “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–533](/us/pl/93/533), which is classified principally to this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because [Pub. L. 93–533](/us/pl/93/533) does not contain titles.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–342](/us/pl/116/342) added subsec. (d).

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–203, § 1098(2)](/us/pl/111/203/s1098/2), substituted “The Bureau shall publish a single, integrated disclosure for mortgage loan transactions (including real estate settlement cost statements) which includes the disclosure requirements of this section and [section 2604 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2604), in conjunction with the disclosure requirements of the Truth in Lending Act that, taken together, may apply to a transaction that is subject to both or either provisions of law. The purpose of such model disclosure shall be to facilitate compliance with the disclosure requirements of this chapter and the Truth in Lending Act, and to aid the borrower or lessee in understanding the transaction by utilizing readily understandable language to simplify the technical nature of the disclosures.” for “The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of Veteran’s Affairs, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, shall develop and prescribe a standard form for the statement of settlement costs which shall be used (with such variations as may be necessary to reflect differences in legal and administrative requirements or practices in different areas of the country) as the standard real estate settlement form in all transactions in the United States which involve federally related mortgage loans.”, “Such forms” for “Such form”, “Bureau may” for “Secretary may”, “the forms” for “the form”, and “prescribed by the Bureau” for “prescribed by the Secretary” and substituted “standard forms” for “standard form” in two places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 111–203, § 1098(2)(B)](/us/pl/111/203/s1098/2/B), (C), substituted “forms” for “form” wherever appearing and “Bureau” for “Secretary” in two places.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–203, § 1475](/us/pl/111/203/s1475), added subsec. (c).

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–208](/us/pl/104/208) substituted “Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision” for “Federal Home Loan Bank Board”.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–205, § 3(1)](/us/pl/94/205/s3/1)–(3), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), struck out “minimum” after “with such” and “unavoidable” after “necessary to reflect” in parenthetical provisions covering allowable regional variations in the uniform settlement statement, and substituted provisions authorizing the Secretary to permit deletions from the standard form for provisions requiring that the standard form contain all the information and data required under the Truth in Lending Act.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–205, § 3(4)](/us/pl/94/205/s3/4), added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–342, § 2(c)](/us/pl/116/342/s2/c), Jan. 13, 2021, [134 Stat. 5135](/us/stat/134/5135), provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) [amending this section and [section 1604 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1604), Commerce and Trade] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 13, 2021].”

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

Amendment by [section 1098(2) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1098/2) effective on the designated transfer date, see [section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1100H), set out as a note under [section 552a of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552a), Government Organization and Employees.

Amendment by [section 1475 of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1475) effective on the date on which final regulations implementing that amendment take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as a note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–205](/us/pl/94/205) effective Jan. 2, 1976, with the Secretary authorized to suspend for up to 180 days from Jan. 2, 1976, any provision of this section as amended by [Pub. L. 94–205](/us/pl/94/205), see [section 12 of Pub. L. 94–205](/us/pl/94/205/s12), set out as a note under [section 2602 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2602).

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 22, 1974, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 93–533](/us/pl/93/533/s20), set out as a note under [section 2601 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s2601).
