---
title: "§ 247d–9. Dental education for parents of newborns"
identifier: "USC-T42-S247d–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section247d–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–3, title V, § 501(c)](/us/pl/111/3/tV/s501/c), Feb. 4, 2009, [123 Stat. 87](/us/stat/123/87).)"
---
# § 247d–9. Dental education for parents of newborns

##### § 247d–9. Dental education for parents of newborns

The Secretary shall develop and implement, through entities that fund or provide perinatal care services to targeted low-income children under a State child health plan under title XXI of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 1397aa](/us/usc/t42/s1397aa) et seq.], a program to deliver oral health educational materials that inform new parents about risks for, and prevention of, early childhood caries and the need for a dental visit within their newborn’s first year of life.

*([Pub. L. 111–3, title V, § 501(c)](/us/pl/111/3/tV/s501/c), Feb. 4, 2009, [123 Stat. 87](/us/stat/123/87).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Social Security Act, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Title XXI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XXI (§ 1397aa et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Apr. 1, 2009, and applicable to child health assistance and medical assistance provided on or after that date, with certain exceptions, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 111–3](/us/pl/111/3/s3), set out as a note under [section 1396 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1396).

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services, see [section 1(c)(3) of Pub. L. 111–3](/us/pl/111/3/s1/c/3), set out as a note under [section 1396 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1396).
