---
title: "§ 11132. Allocation of funds"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11132"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11132"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 222](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s222), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/88/1118); [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/1), (2)(A)–(C), (3), (4), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/91/1051); [Pub. L. 96–509, § 10](/us/pl/96/509/s10), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2755](/us/stat/94/2755); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 625(b)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s625/b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2111](/us/stat/98/2111); [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7257](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7257"
---
# § 11132. Allocation of funds

##### § 11132. Allocation of funds

(a) Time; basis; amounts

(1) Subject to paragraph (2) and in accordance with regulations promulgated under this part, funds shall be allocated annually among the States on the basis of relative population of people under 18 years of age, based on the most recent data available from the Bureau of the Census.

(2)

(A) If the aggregate amount appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this subchapter is less than $75,000,000, then—

(i) the amount allocated to each State other than a State described in clause (ii) for that fiscal year shall be not less than $400,000; and

(ii) the amount allocated to the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for that fiscal year shall be not less than $75,000.

(B) If the aggregate amount appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this subchapter is not less than $75,000,000, then—

(i) the amount allocated to each State other than a State described in clause (ii) for that fiscal year shall be not less than $600,000; and

(ii) the amount allocated to the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for that fiscal year shall be not less than $100,000.

(b) Reallocation of unobligated funds If any amount so allocated remains unobligated at the end of the fiscal year, such funds shall be reallocated in a manner equitable and consistent with the purpose of this part. Any amount so reallocated shall be in addition to the amounts already allocated and available to the State, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for the same period.

(c) Use of allocated funds for development, etc., of State plans; limitations; matching requirements In accordance with regulations promulgated under this part, a portion of any allocation to any State under this part shall be available to develop a State plan or for other pre-award activities associated with such State plan, and to pay that portion of the expenditures which are necessary for effective and efficient administration of funds, including the designation of not less than one individual who shall coordinate efforts to achieve and sustain compliance with the core requirements and certify whether the State is in compliance with such requirements. Not more than 10 percent of the total annual allocation of such State shall be available for such purposes except that any amount expended or obligated by such State, or by units of local government or any combination thereof, from amounts made available under this subsection shall be matched (in an amount equal to any such amount so expended or obligated) by such State, or by such units or combinations, from State or local funds, as the case may be. The State shall make available needed funds for planning and administration to units of local government or combinations thereof within the State on an equitable basis.

(d) Minimum annual allocation for assistance of advisory group In accordance with regulations promulgated under this part, not more than 5 percent of the annual allocation to any State under this part shall be available to assist the advisory group established under [section 11133(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11133/a/3).

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 222](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s222), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1118](/us/stat/88/1118); [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/1), (2)(A)–(C), (3), (4), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/91/1051); [Pub. L. 96–509, § 10](/us/pl/96/509/s10), Dec. 8, 1980, [94 Stat. 2755](/us/stat/94/2755); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 625(b)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s625/b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2111](/us/stat/98/2111); [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7257](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7257), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4438](/us/stat/102/4438); [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 4987](/us/stat/106/4987); [Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(b) [title I, § 129(a)(2)(B)]](/us/pl/105/277/dA/s101/b/tI/s129/a/2/B), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–50](/us/stat/112/2681-50), 2681–75; [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12208](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12208), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1873](/us/stat/116/1873); [Pub. L. 115–385, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/115/385/tII/s204/b), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5130](/us/stat/132/5130).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5632 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5632), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 204(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/385/s204/b/1/A), substituted “18 years of age, based on the most recent data available from the Bureau of the Census” for “age eighteen”.

Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 204(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/385/s204/b/1/B), added par. (2) and struck out former pars. (2) and (3) which set out allocated amounts to States depending on whether aggregate appropriations were less than, equal to, or more than $75,000,000 and stipulated a condition if the amount allocated would be less than the amount allocated to the State for fiscal year 2000.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 204(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/385/s204/b/2), substituted “effective and efficient administration of funds, including the designation of not less than one individual who shall coordinate efforts to achieve and sustain compliance with the core requirements and certify whether the State is in compliance with such requirements” for “efficient administration, including monitoring, evaluation, and one full-time staff position”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–385, § 204(b)(3)](/us/pl/115/385/s204/b/3), substituted “not more than 5 percent of the” for “5 per centum of the minimum”.

2002—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12208(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/107/273/s12208/1/A/i), struck out “(other than parts D and E)” after “carry out this subchapter”, substituted “amount up to $400,000” for “amount, up to $400,000,”, “fiscal year 2000, except” for “fiscal year 1992 except”, “amount up to $100,000” for “amount, up to $100,000,”, and “fiscal year 2000, each” for “fiscal year 1992, each”, and struck out “the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,” after “American Samoa,”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12208(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/107/273/s12208/1/A/ii), struck out “(other than part D)” after “carry out this subchapter”, substituted “less than $600,000” for “less than $400,000”, “amount up to $100,000” for “amount, up to $100,000,”, and “fiscal year 2000,” for “fiscal year 1992”, and struck out “or such greater amount, up to $600,000, as is available to be allocated if appropriations have been enacted and made available to carry out parts D and E of this subchapter in the full amounts authorized by section 5671(a)(1) and (3) of this title” before “except that” and “the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,” after “American Samoa,”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12208(1)(B)](/us/pl/107/273/s12208/1/B), substituted “fiscal year 2000” for “fiscal year 1992” in two places and “allocate” for “allot”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–273, § 12208(2)](/us/pl/107/273/s12208/2), struck out “the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,” after “Guam,”.

1998—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277) substituted “units of local government” for “units of general local government” in two places.

1992—Subsec. (a)(2)(A). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), (B)(i), substituted “parts D and E” for “part D”, substituted “allocated” for “allotted” in two places, and inserted “or such greater amount, up to $400,000, as is available to be allocated without reducing the amount of any State or territory’s allocation below the amount allocated for fiscal year 1992” and “, or such greater amount, up to $100,000, as is available to be allocated without reducing the amount of any State or territory’s allocation below the amount allocated for fiscal year 1992,”.

Subsec. (a)(2)(B). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), (B)(ii), substituted “allocated” for “allotted” in two places and inserted “or such greater amount, up to $600,000, as is available to be allocated if appropriations have been enacted and made available to carry out parts D and E of this subchapter in the full amounts authorized by section 5671(a)(1) and (3) of this title” and “, or such greater amount, up to $100,000, as is available to be allocated without reducing the amount of any State or territory’s allocation below the amount allocated for fiscal year 1992”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), (B)(iii), substituted “allocated” for “allotted” wherever appearing and “1992” for “1988” in two places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), substituted “allocated” for “allotted” in two places.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), (C), substituted “allocation” for “allotment” in two places, “, evaluation, and one full-time staff position” for “and evaluation”, and “10 percent” for “7½ per centum”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(f)(2)(A)](/us/pl/102/586/s2/f/2/A), substituted “allocation” for “allotment”.

1988—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7257(a)(1)](/us/pl/100/690/s7257/a/1), (2), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “Subject to paragraph (2) and in” for “In”, and struck out at end “No such allotment to any State shall be less than $225,000, except that for the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands no allotment shall be less than $56,250.”

Subsec. (a)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7257(a)(3)](/us/pl/100/690/s7257/a/3), added pars. (2) and (3).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 100–690, § 7257(b)](/us/pl/100/690/s7257/b), substituted “If” for “Except for funds appropriated for fiscal year 1975, if” and struck out after first sentence “Funds appropriated for fiscal year 1975 may be obligated in accordance with subsection (a) until June 30, 1976, after which time they may be reallocated.”

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) substituted “the Trust Territory” for “and the Trust Territory” and inserted “, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands” after “Pacific Islands”.

1980—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 96–509](/us/pl/96/509) inserted reference to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

1977—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/1), substituted “$225,000” for “$200,000” and “$56,250” for “$50,000”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(2)(A)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/2/A), (B), (3), inserted provisions relating to pre-award activities, monitoring and evaluation payments, and matching requirements for expended or obligated amounts, and substituted “7½” for “15” and “units of general local government or combinations thereof” for “local governments”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/2/C), (4)(B), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d). Former subsec. (d), relating to limitations on financial assistance under this section, was struck out.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/4/A), (B), added subsec. (e) and redesignated former subsec. (e) as (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385) not applicable with respect to funds appropriated for any fiscal year that begins before Dec. 21, 2018, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 115–385](/us/pl/115/385/s3), set out as a note under [section 11102 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11102).

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273) effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273/s12223), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690) effective Oct. 1, 1988, see [section 7296(a) of Pub. L. 100–690](/us/pl/100/690/s7296/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473) effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 670(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s670/a), set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

#### Effective Date of 1977 Amendment

Amendment by section 4(b)(1), (3) of [Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 263(c) of Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415/s263/c), as added by [Pub. L. 95–115](/us/pl/95/115) and repealed by [Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7266(2)](/us/pl/100/690/tVII/s7266/2), Nov. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 4449](/us/stat/102/4449), formerly set out as a note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).

[Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(2)(D)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/2/D), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/91/1051), provided that: “The amendments made by this paragraph [amending this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1978.”

[Pub. L. 95–115, § 4(b)(4)(B)](/us/pl/95/115/s4/b/4/B), Oct. 3, 1977, [91 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/91/1051), provided that the amendment made by such section 4(b)(4)(B) is effective Oct. 1, 1978.
