---
title: "§ 300ff–131. Infectious diseases and circumstances relevant to notification requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300ff–131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300ff–131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/123/2897).)"
---
# § 300ff–131. Infectious diseases and circumstances relevant to notification requirements

##### § 300ff–131. Infectious diseases and circumstances relevant to notification requirements

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after October 30, 2009, the Secretary shall complete the development of—

(1) a list of potentially life-threatening infectious diseases, including emerging infectious diseases, to which emergency response employees may be exposed in responding to emergencies;

(2) guidelines describing the circumstances in which such employees may be exposed to such diseases, taking into account the conditions under which emergency response is provided; and

(3) guidelines describing the manner in which medical facilities should make determinations for purposes of [section 300ff–133(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–133/d).

(b) Specification of airborne infectious diseases The list developed by the Secretary under subsection (a)(1) shall include a specification of those infectious diseases on the list that are routinely transmitted through airborne or aerosolized means.

(c) Dissemination The Secretary shall—

(1) transmit to State public health officers copies of the list and guidelines developed by the Secretary under subsection (a) with the request that the officers disseminate such copies as appropriate throughout the States; and

(2) make such copies available to the public.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXVI, § 2695, as added [Pub. L. 111–87, § 13](/us/pl/111/87/s13), Oct. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2897](/us/stat/123/2897).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as if enacted on Sept. 30, 2009, see [section 2(a)(3)(B) of Pub. L. 111–87](/us/pl/111/87/s2/a/3/B), set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment; Revival of Section note under [section 300ff–11 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300ff–11).
