---
title: "§ 1957. Extra hazard costs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1957"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1957"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/72/1162), § 757; renumbered § 1957 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(b)(1), (2)(E), 5(a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105/404-406).)"
---
# § 1957. Extra hazard costs

##### § 1957. Extra hazard costs

(a) The United States shall bear the excess mortality and disability cost resulting from the hazards of war on United States Government life insurance.

(b) Whenever benefits under United States Government life insurance become, or have become, payable because of total permanent disability of the insured or because of the death of the insured as a result of disease or injury traceable to the extra hazard of the military or naval service, as such hazard may be determined by the Secretary, the liability shall be borne by the United States. In such cases the Secretary shall transfer from the military and naval insurance appropriation to the United States Government Life Insurance Fund a sum which, together with the reserve of the policy at the time of maturity by total permanent disability or death, will equal the then value of such benefits. When a person receiving total permanent disability benefits under a United States Government life insurance policy recovers from such disability and is then entitled to continue a reduced amount of insurance, the Secretary shall transfer to the military and naval insurance appropriation all of the loss reserve to the credit of such policy claim except a sum sufficient to set up the then required reserve on the reduced amount of the insurance that may be continued, which sum shall be retained in the United States Government Life Insurance Fund for the purpose of such reserve.

(c) Whenever benefits under the total disability provision become, or have become, payable because of total disability of the insured as a result of disease or injury traceable to the extra hazard of the military or naval service, as such hazard may be determined by the Secretary, the liability shall be borne by the United States, and the Secretary shall transfer from the military and naval insurance appropriation to the United States Government Life Insurance Fund from time to time any amounts which become or have become payable to the insured on account of such total disability, and shall transfer from the United States Government Life Insurance Fund to the military and naval insurance appropriation the amount of the reserve held on account of the total disability benefit. When a person receiving such payments on account of total disability recovers from such disability and is then entitled to continued protection under the total disability provision, the Secretary shall transfer to the United States Government Life Insurance Fund a sum sufficient to set up the then required reserve on such total disability benefit.

(d) Any disability for which a waiver was required as a condition to tendering a person a commission under Public Law 816, Seventy-seventh Congress, shall be deemed to be a disability resulting from an injury or disease traceable to the extra hazard of military or naval service for the purpose of applying this section.

*([Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1162](/us/stat/72/1162), § 757; renumbered § 1957 and amended [Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83), §§ 4(b)(1), (2)(E), 5(a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404–406](/us/stat/105/404-406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Public Law 816, Seventy-seventh Congress, referred to in subsec. (d), is [act Dec. 18, 1942, ch. 768](/us/act/1942-12-18/ch768), §§ 1, 2, [56 Stat. 1066](/us/stat/56/1066). Section 1 of that Act enacted section 853c–5 of former Title 34, Navy, and was repealed by [act July 9, 1952, ch. 608](/us/act/1952-07-09/ch608), pt. VIII, § 803, [66 Stat. 505](/us/stat/66/505). Section 2 of that Act enacted section 853c–6 of former Title 34, and was omitted from the Code in the general revision and reenactment of Title 10, Armed Forces, by [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 1](/us/stat/70A/1).

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 757 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s757) as this section and substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing in subsecs. (b) and (c).
