---
title: "§ 9807. Biennial reports and congressional consultation"
identifier: "USC-T22-S9807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section9807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title V, § 508](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tV/s508), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3065](/us/stat/133/3065).)"
---
# § 9807. Biennial reports and congressional consultation

##### § 9807. Biennial reports and congressional consultation

(a) Biennial reports Not later than two years after the submission of the plans required in [section 9805 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9805), and every two years thereafter until the date that is ten years after the date of submission of such plans, the President, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Secretary of Defense, and the heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees an unclassified report, which may include a classified annex, on progress made and lessons learned with respect to implementation of the Global Fragility Strategy established pursuant to [section 9803 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s9803). The report shall include the following elements:

(1) Descriptions of steps taken to incorporate the strategy into any relevant, existing country and regional plans or strategies.

(2) Accountings of all funding received and obligated to implement each such country and regional plan during the previous two years, and, to the extent feasible, projections of funding to be requested, planned, and implemented for the following two years.

(3) Descriptions of progress made towards achieving specific targets, metrics, and indicators for each priority country and region.

(4) Descriptions of any changes made to programs based on the results of assessment, monitoring, and evaluation for each priority country and region.

(b) Congressional consultation The Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, and the Secretary of Defense shall provide to any appropriate congressional committee briefings on the implementation of this chapter upon the request of any such committee.

*([Pub. L. 116–94, div. J, title V, § 508](/us/pl/116/94/dJ/tV/s508), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3065](/us/stat/133/3065).)*
