---
title: "§ 8594. Marine Corps University: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8594"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8594"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 522(d)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s522/d/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/119/3242), § 7104; renumbered § 8594, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/c/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)"
---
# § 8594. Marine Corps University: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes

##### § 8594. Marine Corps University: acceptance of grants for faculty research for scientific, literary, and educational purposes

(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.— The Secretary of the Navy may authorize the President of the Marine Corps University to accept qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor of one of the institutions comprising the University for a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.

(b) Qualifying Grants.— A qualifying research grant under this section is a grant that is awarded on a competitive basis by an entity referred to in subsection (c) for a research project with a scientific, literary, or educational purpose.

(c) Entities From Which Grants May Be Accepted.— A grant may be accepted under this section only from a corporation, fund, foundation, educational institution, or similar entity that is organized and operated primarily for scientific, literary, or educational purposes.

(d) Administration of Grant Funds.— The Secretary shall establish an account for administering funds received as research grants under this section. The President of the Marine Corps University shall use the funds in the account in accordance with applicable provisions of the regulations and the terms and condition of the grants received.

(e) Related Expenses.— Subject to such limitations as may be provided in appropriations Acts, appropriations available for the Marine Corps University may be used to pay expenses incurred by the University in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of qualifying research grants.

(f) Regulations.— The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this section.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 522(d)(1)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s522/d/1), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3242](/us/stat/119/3242), § 7104; renumbered § 8594, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(c)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/c/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7104 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7104) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
