---
title: "§ 360. Station licenses; inspection of equipment by Commission"
identifier: "USC-T47-S360"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section360"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 362, formerly § 360, as added [May 20, 1937, ch. 229, § 10(b)](/us/act/1937-05-20/ch229/s10/b), [50 Stat. 196](/us/stat/50/196); renumbered § 362, [Aug. 13, 1954, ch. 729, § 2(a)(1)](/us/act/1954-08-13/ch729/s2/a/1), [68 Stat. 706](/us/stat/68/706); amended [Pub. L. 87–811](/us/pl/87/811), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 922](/us/stat/76/922); [Pub. L. 104–104, title IV, § 403(n)](/us/pl/104/104/tIV/s403/n), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 132]"
---
# § 360. Station licenses; inspection of equipment by Commission

##### § 360. Station licenses; inspection of equipment by Commission

(a) In addition to any other provisions required to be included in a radio station license, the station license of each ship of the United States subject to this subchapter shall include particulars with reference to the items specifically required by this subchapter.

(b) Every ship of the United States that is subject to this part shall have the equipment and apparatus prescribed therein inspected at least once each year by the Commission or an entity designated by the Commission. If, after such inspection, the Commission is satisfied that all relevant provisions of this chapter and the station license have been complied with, the fact shall be so certified on the station license by the Commission. The Commission shall make such additional inspections at frequent intervals as the Commission determines may be necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The Commission may, upon a finding that the public interest could be served thereby—

(1) waive the annual inspection required under this section for a period of up to 90 days for the sole purpose of enabling a vessel to complete its voyage and proceed to a port in the United States where an inspection can be held; or

(2) waive the annual inspection required under this section for a vessel that is in compliance with the radio provisions of the Safety Convention and that is operating solely in waters beyond the jurisdiction of the United States: *Provided*, That such inspection shall be performed within 30 days of such vessel’s return to the United States.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 362, formerly § 360, as added [May 20, 1937, ch. 229, § 10(b)](/us/act/1937-05-20/ch229/s10/b), [50 Stat. 196](/us/stat/50/196); renumbered § 362, [Aug. 13, 1954, ch. 729, § 2(a)(1)](/us/act/1954-08-13/ch729/s2/a/1), [68 Stat. 706](/us/stat/68/706); amended [Pub. L. 87–811](/us/pl/87/811), Oct. 15, 1962, [76 Stat. 922](/us/stat/76/922); [Pub. L. 104–104, title IV, § 403(n)](/us/pl/104/104/tIV/s403/n), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 132](/us/stat/110/132).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in subsec. (b), commences with [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s351).

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 104–104](/us/pl/104/104) amended subsec. (b) generally, revising structure of subsec. so as to contain 2 pars. and adding provisions relating to inspection by an entity designated by Commission, waiver of inspection for up to 90 days, and waiver for vessels in compliance with radio provisions of Safety Convention that are outside the jurisdiction of the United States.

1962—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 87–811](/us/pl/87/811) empowered the Commission to waive the annual inspection from the time of first arrival at a United States port from a foreign port, for the sole purpose of enabling the vessel to proceed coastwise to another port in the United States where an inspection can be held, and limiting such waiver to not more than a period of 30 days.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective May 20, 1937, see section 16 of act May 20, 1937, set out as a note under [section 351 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s351).
