---
title: "§ 1701x–1. Home inspection counseling"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701x–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701x–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1451](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1451), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2176](/us/stat/124/2176).)"
---
# § 1701x–1. Home inspection counseling

##### § 1701x–1. Home inspection counseling

(a) Public outreach

(1) In general The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) shall take such actions as may be necessary to inform potential homebuyers of the availability and importance of obtaining an independent home inspection. Such actions shall include—

(A) publication of the HUD/FHA form HUD 92564–CN entitled “For Your Protection: Get a Home Inspection”, in both English and Spanish languages;

(B) publication of the HUD/FHA booklet entitled “For Your Protection: Get a Home Inspection”, in both English and Spanish languages;

(C) development and publication of a HUD booklet entitled “For Your Protection—Get a Home Inspection” that does not reference FHA-insured homes, in both English and Spanish languages; and

(D) publication of the HUD document entitled “Ten Important Questions To Ask Your Home Inspector”, in both English and Spanish languages.

(2) Availability The Secretary shall make the materials specified in paragraph (1) available for electronic access and, where appropriate, inform potential homebuyers of such availability through home purchase counseling public service announcements and toll-free telephone hotlines of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Secretary shall give special emphasis to reaching first-time and low-income homebuyers with these materials and efforts.

(3) Updating The Secretary may periodically update and revise such materials, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(b) Requirement for FHA-approved lenders Each mortgagee approved for participation in the mortgage insurance programs under title II of the National Housing Act [[12 U.S.C. 1707](/us/usc/t12/s1707) et seq.] shall provide prospective homebuyers, at first contact, whether upon pre-qualification, pre-approval, or initial application, the materials specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D) of subsection (a)(1).

(c) Requirements for HUD-approved counseling agencies Each counseling agency certified pursuant by 11 So in original. the Secretary to provide housing counseling services shall provide each of their clients, as part of the home purchase counseling process, the materials specified in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of subsection (a)(1).

(d) Training Training provided the Department of Housing and Urban Development for housing counseling agencies, whether such training is provided directly by the Department or otherwise, shall include—

(1) providing information on counseling potential homebuyers of the availability and importance of getting an independent home inspection;

(2) providing information about the home inspection process, including the reasons for specific inspections such as radon and lead-based paint testing;

(3) providing information about advising potential homebuyers on how to locate and select a qualified home inspector; and

(4) review of home inspection public outreach materials of the Department.

*([Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1451](/us/pl/111/203/tXIV/s1451), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2176](/us/stat/124/2176).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 27, 1934, ch. 847](/us/act/1934-06-27/ch847), [48 Stat. 1246](/us/stat/48/1246). Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1707 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1701 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1701) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Expand and Preserve Home Ownership Through Counseling Act and also as part of the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act and as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date on which final regulations implementing such section take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c), set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601), Commerce and Trade.
