---
title: "§ 1593e. Housing of persons displaced by acquisition of property for defense installations or industries"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1593e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1593e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title VI, § 611, [65 Stat. 316](/us/stat/65/316); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)"
---
# § 1593e. Housing of persons displaced by acquisition of property for defense installations or industries

##### § 1593e. Housing of persons displaced by acquisition of property for defense installations or industries

Upon a finding by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development that the acquisition of any real property for a defense installation or industry has resulted, or will result, in the displacement of persons from their homes on such property, he may (notwithstanding any other provision of this or any other law) issue regulations pursuant to which such persons may be permitted to occupy or purchase housing for which credit restrictions established pursuant to the Defense Production Act of 1950 [[50 U.S.C. 4501](/us/usc/t50/s4501) et seq.] have been relaxed or housing which has been provided or assisted under the provisions of this Act (including amendments to other Acts provided herein), subject to any conditions or requirements that he determines necessary for purposes of national defense.

*([Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title VI, § 611, [65 Stat. 316](/us/stat/65/316); [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Defense Production Act of 1950, referred to in text, is [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), which is classified to chapter 55 (§ 4501 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

This Act and herein, referred to in text, mean [act Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), [65 Stat. 293](/us/stat/65/293), known as the Defense Housing and Community Facilities and Services Act of 1951. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1951 Amendment note set out under [section 1501 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1501) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
