---
title: "§ 1701z–10. Model rehabilitation guidelines in inspection and approval of rehabilitated properties; report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701z–10"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701z–10"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 511](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s511), as added [Pub. L. 95–557, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/95/557/tIX/s903), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2125](/us/stat/92/2125).)"
---
# § 1701z–10. Model rehabilitation guidelines in inspection and approval of rehabilitated properties; report to Congress

##### § 1701z–10. Model rehabilitation guidelines in inspection and approval of rehabilitated properties; report to Congress

(a)

(1) The Secretary shall develop model rehabilitation guidelines for the voluntary adoption by States and communities to be used in conjunction with existing building codes by State and local officials in the inspection and approval of rehabilitated properties.

(2) Such guidelines shall be developed in consultation with the National Institute of Building Sciences, appropriate national organizations of agencies and officials of State and local governments, representatives of the building industry, and consumer groups, and other interested parties.

(3) The Secretary shall publish such guidelines for public comment not later than one year after October 31, 1978, and promulgate them no later than eighteen months after such date.

(4) The Secretary may furnish technical assistance to State and local governments to facilitate the use and implementation of such guidelines.

(b) The Secretary shall report to Congress not later than thirty-six months after October 31, 1978, regarding (1) actions taken by State and local governments to adopt guidelines or their equivalents, and (2) recommendations for further action.

*([Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 511](/us/pl/91/609/tV/s511), as added [Pub. L. 95–557, title IX, § 903](/us/pl/95/557/tIX/s903), Oct. 31, 1978, [92 Stat. 2125](/us/stat/92/2125).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.
