---
title: "§ 430g–8. Advisory Commission"
identifier: "USC-T16-S430g–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section430g–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–377, § 5](/us/pl/101/377/s5), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 466](/us/stat/104/466); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(90)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/90), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4315](/us/stat/136/4315).)"
---
# § 430g–8. Advisory Commission

##### § 430g–8. Advisory Commission

(a) Establishment There is hereby established the Gettysburg National Military Park Advisory Commission (hereafter in sections 430g–8 to 430g–10 of this title referred to as the “Advisory Commission”). The Advisory Commission shall be composed of eleven members, as follows:

Members shall be appointed for staggered terms of three years, as designated by the Secretary at the time of the initial appointments. Any member of the Advisory Commission appointed for a definite term may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor is appointed. The Advisory Commission shall designate one of its members as Chairperson. Six members of the Advisory Commission shall constitute a quorum.

(1) One member representing each of the local governments from the four townships surrounding the park and the Borough of Gettysburg, appointed by the Secretary.

(2) One member representing the Adams County, Pennsylvania government, appointed by the Secretary.

(3) One member representing the State Historic Preservation Office of the State of Pennsylvania, appointed by the Secretary.

(4) Two members who are residents of Adams County and who are knowledgeable about the park and its resources, appointed by the Secretary, one of whom shall own land or interests in land within the park boundary.

(5) One member with expertise in local historic preservation, appointed by the Secretary.

(6) The Director of the National Park Service or his designee, ex officio.

(b) Management and development issues The Secretary, or his designee, shall from time to time, but at least semiannually, meet and consult with the Advisory Commission to coordinate the management of the park and the historic district with local jurisdictions.

(c) Meetings The Advisory Commission shall meet on a regular basis. Notice of meetings and agenda shall be published in local newspapers which have a distribution which generally covers the area affected by the park. Advisory Commission meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to ensure adequate public involvement.

(d) Expenses Members of the Advisory Commission shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under sections 430g–4 to 430g–10 of this title on vouchers signed by the Chairperson.

(e) Charter The provisions of [section 1013 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013) are hereby waived with respect to this Advisory Commission.

*([Pub. L. 101–377, § 5](/us/pl/101/377/s5), Aug. 17, 1990, [104 Stat. 466](/us/stat/104/466); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(a)(90)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/a/90), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4315](/us/stat/136/4315).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “[section 1013 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013)” for “section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)”.
