---
title: "§ 2312. Imposition of sanctions"
identifier: "USC-T21-S2312"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section2312"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7212](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7212), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/133/2265); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIII, § 8316](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIII/s8316), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/139/1858).)"
---
# § 2312. Imposition of sanctions

##### § 2312. Imposition of sanctions

(1) is identified as a foreign opioid trafficker in a report submitted under [section 2311(a) of this title](/us/usc/t21/s2311/a);

(2) the President determines is owned, controlled, directed by, knowingly supplying or sourcing precursors for, or knowingly acting for or on behalf of, such a foreign opioid trafficker;

(3) the President determines has knowingly engaged in, on or after December 18, 2025, a pattern of significant activity that has materially contributed to opioid trafficking; or

(4) the President determines—

(A) has knowingly engaged in a pattern of providing significant financial, material, or technological support for, including through the provision of goods or services in support of, any activity or transaction described in paragraph (3); or

(B) is owned, controlled, or directed by any foreign person described in subparagraph (A) or in paragraph (3), or has knowingly acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, such a foreign person.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, § 7212](/us/pl/116/92/dF/tLXXII/s7212), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/133/2265); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIII, § 8316](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIII/s8316), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1858](/us/stat/139/1858).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Pars. (3), (4). [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) added pars. (3) and (4).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions and authorities of President under this section delegated to Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, by section 1(d)(v) of Memorandum of President of the United States, Mar. 31, 2020, 85 F.R. 22343, set out as a note under [section 2311 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s2311).
