---
title: "§ 687. Use of State dredge and appliances in river and harbor improvements"
identifier: "USC-T33-S687"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section687"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1899, ch. 425, § 1](/us/act/1899-03-03/ch425/s1), [30 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/30/1148); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 687. Use of State dredge and appliances in river and harbor improvements

##### § 687. Use of State dredge and appliances in river and harbor improvements

The Secretary of the Army is authorized to accept from the State of California the use of any dredger, or appliances owned or controlled by said State, conformably to any offer thereof by the said State; and the Secretary of the Army is authorized to use any such dredger or appliances in any river or harbor improvement that may be prosecuted therein by the United States, either on the part of the United States alone or conjointly with said State: *Provided*, That nothing shall be paid to the State of California for the use of said dredger, and that nothing herein contained shall create any liability against the United States.

*([Mar. 3, 1899, ch. 425, § 1](/us/act/1899-03-03/ch425/s1), [30 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/30/1148); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of act Mar. 3, 1899, popularly known as the “Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1899”, and not as part of [act Mar. 1, 1893, ch. 183](/us/act/1893-03-01/ch183), [27 Stat. 507](/us/stat/27/507), which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
