---
title: "§ 3402. State facilities and personnel for care and treatment; encouragement of adequate provision; benefit of experience of Surgeon General and Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s602), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450).)"
---
# § 3402. State facilities and personnel for care and treatment; encouragement of adequate provision; benefit of experience of Surgeon General and Attorney General

##### § 3402. State facilities and personnel for care and treatment; encouragement of adequate provision; benefit of experience of Surgeon General and Attorney General

The Surgeon General and the Attorney General are authorized to give representatives of States and local subdivisions thereof the benefit of their experience in the care, treatment, and rehabilitation of narcotic addicts so that each State may be encouraged to provide adequate facilities and personnel for the care and treatment of narcotic addicts in its jurisdiction.

*([Pub. L. 89–793, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/89/793/tVI/s602), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1450](/us/stat/80/1450).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act of 1966, which is classified to subchapters II and III of this chapter, chapter 314 (§ 4251 et seq.) of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and chapter 175 (§ 2901 et seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” pursuant to [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Public Health Service, Surgeon General of Public Health Service, and all other officers and employees of Public Health Service, and functions of all agencies of or in Public Health Service transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1956, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202).
