---
title: "§ 3775. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S3775"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3775"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (f), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4230.)"
---
# § 3775. Definitions

##### § 3775. Definitions

(a) Covered Government Support Contractor Defined.— In this subchapter, the term “covered Government support contractor” means a contractor under a contract the primary purpose of which is to furnish independent and impartial advice or technical assistance directly to the Government in support of the Government’s management and oversight of a program or effort (rather than to directly furnish an end item or service to accomplish a program or effort), which contractor—

(1) is not affiliated with the prime contractor or a first-tier subcontractor on the program or effort, or with any direct competitor of such prime contractor or any such first-tier subcontractor in furnishing end items or services of the type developed or produced on the program or effort; and

(2) executes a contract with the Government agreeing to and acknowledging—

(A) that proprietary or nonpublic technical data furnished will be accessed and used only for the purposes stated in that contract;

(B) that the covered Government support contractor will enter into a non-disclosure agreement with the contractor to whom the rights to the technical data belong;

(C) that the covered Government support contractor will take all reasonable steps to protect the proprietary and nonpublic nature of the technical data furnished to the covered Government support contractor during the program or effort for the period of time in which the Government is restricted from disclosing the technical data outside of the Government;

(D) that a breach of that contract by the covered Government support contractor with regard to a third party’s ownership or rights in such technical data may subject the covered Government support contractor—

(i) to criminal, civil, administrative, and contractual actions in law and equity for penalties, damages, and other appropriate remedies by the United States; and

(ii) to civil actions for damages and other appropriate remedies by the contractor or subcontractor whose technical data is affected by the breach; and

(E) that such technical data provided to the covered Government support contractor under the authority of this section shall not be used by the covered Government support contractor to compete against the third party for Government or non-Government contracts.

(b) Additional Definitions.— In this subchapter, the terms “major system component”, “modular system interface”, and “modular open system approach” have the meanings provided in [section 4401 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4401).

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1833(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1833/a/1), (f), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4226](/us/stat/134/4226), 4230.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (g) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (a), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(f)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/f/1), (2)(A), was based on [Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VIII, § 821(b)](/us/pl/111/84/dA/tVIII/s821/b), Oct. 28, 2009, [123 Stat. 2411](/us/stat/123/2411); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 809(d)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s809/d/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2267](/us/stat/130/2267); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 835(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s835/c/1), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/131/1471).

The text of subsec. (h) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320), which was transferred to this section, redesignated as subsec. (b), and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(f)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/f), was based on [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 809(d)(2)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s809/d/2), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2267](/us/stat/130/2267); [Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title VIII, § 835(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/91/dA/tVIII/s835/c/1), Dec. 12, 2017, [131 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/131/1471); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, § 804(b)(2)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tVIII/s804/b/2/A/ii), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3739](/us/stat/134/3739).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(f)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/f/1), (2)(A), redesignated subsec. (g) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320) as subsec. (a) of this section and substituted “In this subchapter,” for “In this section,” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1833(f)](/us/pl/116/283/s1833/f), redesignated subsec. (h) of [section 2320 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2320) as subsec. (b) of this section and substituted “In this subchapter,” for “In this section,” and “section 4401” for “section 2446a”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
