---
title: "§ 844. Art. 44. Former jeopardy"
identifier: "USC-T10-S844"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section844"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 52](/us/stat/70A/52); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVII, § 5226](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLVII/s5226), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2910](/us/stat/130/2910); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 538](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s538), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/135/1698).)"
---
# § 844. Art. 44. Former jeopardy

##### § 844. Art. 44. Former jeopardy

(a) No person may, without his consent, be tried a second time for the same offense.

(b) No proceeding in which an accused has been found guilty by a court-martial upon any charge or specification is a trial in the sense of this article until the finding of guilty has become final after review of the case has been fully completed.

(c)

(1) A court-martial with a military judge alone is a trial in the sense of this section (article) if, without fault of the accused—

the case is dismissed or terminated by the convening authority or the special trial counsel or on motion of the prosecution for failure of available evidence or witnesses.

(A) after introduction of evidence; and

(B) before announcement of findings under [section 853 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s853) (article 53);

(2) A court-martial with a military judge and members is a trial in the sense of this section (article) if, without fault of the accused—

the case is dismissed or terminated by the convening authority or the special trial counsel or on motion of the prosecution for failure of available evidence or witnesses.

(A) after the members, having taken an oath as members under [section 842 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s842) (article 42) and after completion of challenges under [section 841 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s841) (article 41), are impaneled; and

(B) before announcement of findings under [section 853 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s853) (article 53);

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 52](/us/stat/70A/52); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVII, § 5226](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLVII/s5226), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2910](/us/stat/130/2910); [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title V, § 538](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tV/s538), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/135/1698).)*

In subsection (a), the word “may” is substituted for the word “shall”.

In subsection (b), the word “is” is substituted for the words “shall be held to be”.

In subsection (c), the word “after” is substituted for the words “subsequent to”. The word “before” is substituted for the words “prior to”. The word “is” is substituted for the words “shall be”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 844(a)844(b)844(c) | 50:619(a).50:619(b).50:619(c). | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 44), 64 Stat. 122. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) inserted “or the special trial counsel” after “the convening authority” in two places.

2016—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: “A proceeding which, after the introduction of evidence but before a finding, is dismissed or terminated by the convening authority or on motion of the prosecution for failure of available evidence or witnesses without any fault of the accused is a trial in the sense of this article.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) effective on the date that is two years after Dec. 27, 2021, and applicable with respect to offenses that occur after that date, with provisions for delayed effect and applicability if regulations are not prescribed by the President before the date that is two years after Dec. 27, 2021, see [section 539C of Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81/s539C), set out as a note under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
