---
title: "§ 30309. Use of abandoned and underutilized buildings, grounds, and facilities"
identifier: "USC-T51-S30309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section30309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/124/3366).)"
---
# § 30309. Use of abandoned and underutilized buildings, grounds, and facilities

##### § 30309. Use of abandoned and underutilized buildings, grounds, and facilities

(a) Definition of Depressed Communities.— In this section, the term “depressed communities” means rural and urban communities that are relatively depressed, in terms of age of housing, extent of poverty, growth of per capita income, extent of unemployment, job lag, or surplus labor.

(b) In General.— In any case in which the Administrator considers the purchase, lease, or expansion of a facility to meet requirements of the Administration, the Administrator shall consider whether those requirements could be met by the use of one of the following:

(1) Abandoned or underutilized buildings, grounds, and facilities in depressed communities that can be converted to Administration usage at a reasonable cost, as determined by the Administrator.

(2) Any military installation that is closed or being closed, or any facility at such an installation.

(3) Any other facility or part of a facility that the Administrator determines to be—

(A) owned or leased by the United States for the use of another agency of the Federal Government; and

(B) considered by the head of the agency involved to be—

(i) excess to the needs of that agency; or

(ii) underutilized by that agency.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3366](/us/stat/124/3366).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30309 | 42 U.S.C. 2473d. | Pub. L. 106–391, title III, § 325, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1600. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the following prior appropriation authorization act:

[Pub. L. 102–588, title II, § 220](/us/pl/102/588/tII/s220), Nov. 4, 1992, [106 Stat. 5118](/us/stat/106/5118).
