---
title: "§ 1505. Proceedings for escheat of improperly held lands"
identifier: "USC-T48-S1505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title48-section1505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "48"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, § 5](/us/act/1887-03-03/ch340/s5), as added [Mar. 2, 1897, ch. 363](/us/act/1897-03-02/ch363), [29 Stat. 619](/us/stat/29/619).)"
---
# § 1505. Proceedings for escheat of improperly held lands

##### § 1505. Proceedings for escheat of improperly held lands

It shall be the duty of the Attorney General of the United States, when he shall be informed or have reason to believe that lands in any of the Territories of the United States are being held contrary to the provisions of this chapter, to institute or cause to be instituted suit in behalf of the United States in the district court of the Territory in the district where such land or a part thereof may be situated, praying for the escheat of the same on behalf of the United States to the United States. Before any such suit is instituted the Attorney General shall give or cause to be given ninety days’ notice by registered letter of his intention to sue, or by personal notice directed to or delivered to the owner of said land, or the person who last rendered the same for taxation, or his agent, and to all other persons having an interest in such lands of which he may have actual or constructive notice. In the event personal notice cannot be obtained in some one of the modes above provided, then said notice shall be given by publication in some newspaper published in the county where the land is situate, and if no newspaper is published in said county then the said notice shall be published in some newspaper nearest said county.

*([Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, § 5](/us/act/1887-03-03/ch340/s5), as added [Mar. 2, 1897, ch. 363](/us/act/1897-03-02/ch363), [29 Stat. 619](/us/stat/29/619).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 75 of Title 8](/us/usc/t8/s75), Aliens and Nationality.
