---
title: "§ 6244. Authority to provide certificate of commendation to Department of Energy and contractor employees for exemplary service in stockpile stewardship and security"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6244"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6244"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/139/1417).)"
---
# § 6244. Authority to provide certificate of commendation to Department of Energy and contractor employees for exemplary service in stockpile stewardship and security

##### § 6244. Authority to provide certificate of commendation to Department of Energy and contractor employees for exemplary service in stockpile stewardship and security

(a) Authority to Present Certificate of Commendation.— The Secretary of Energy may present a certificate of commendation to any current or former employee of the Department of Energy, and any current or former employee of a Department contractor, whose service to the Department in matters relating to stockpile stewardship and security assisted the Department in furthering the national security interests of the United States.

(b) Certificate.— The certificate of commendation presented to a current or former employee under subsection (a) shall include an appropriate citation of the service of the current or former employee described in that subsection, including a citation for dedication, intellect, and sacrifice in furthering the national security interests of the United States by maintaining a strong, safe, and viable United States nuclear deterrent during the cold war or thereafter.

(c) Department of Energy Defined.— For purposes of this section, the term “Department of Energy” includes any predecessor agency of the Department of Energy.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/139/1417).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6244 was renumbered [section 8294 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8294).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2705 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2705), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).

Prior sections 6245 to 6250 were renumbered sections 8295 to 8300 of this title, respectively.
