---
title: "§ 20115. International cooperation"
identifier: "USC-T51-S20115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title51-section20115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "51"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/124/3337).)"
---
# § 20115. International cooperation

##### § 20115. International cooperation

The Administration, under the foreign policy guidance of the President, may engage in a program of international cooperation in work done pursuant to this chapter, and in the peaceful application of the results thereof, pursuant to agreements made by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3](/us/pl/111/314/s3), Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3337](/us/stat/124/3337).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 20115 | 42 U.S.C. 2475. | Pub. L. 85–568, title II, § 205, July 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 432. |

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

Memorandum of President of the United States, Oct. 10, 1995, 60 F.R. 53251, provided:

Memorandum for the Administrator of the National and Aeronautics and Space Administration

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to facilitate the efficient operations of the aeronautical and space programs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), it is hereby ordered as follows:

The authority conferred upon the President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America to executive mutual waivers of claims of liability on behalf of the United States for damages arising out of cooperative activities is hereby delegated to the Administrator of NASA for agreements with foreign governments and their agents regarding aeronautical, science, and space activities that are executed pursuant to the authority granted NASA by the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, [Public Law 85–568](/us/pl/85/568), as amended [see [51 U.S.C. 20101](/us/usc/t51/s20101) et seq.]. All such agreements shall be subject to coordination with and the concurrence of the Department of State to the extent provided by applicable law, regulations, and procedures. All such waivers of liability entered into prior to the date of this memorandum are hereby ratified.

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.
