---
title: "§ 1553a. Recordkeeping for merchandise transported by pipeline"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1553a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1553a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 553A, as added [Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 664](/us/pl/103/182/tVI/s664), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2215](/us/stat/107/2215).)"
---
# § 1553a. Recordkeeping for merchandise transported by pipeline

##### § 1553a. Recordkeeping for merchandise transported by pipeline

Merchandise in Customs 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. custody that is transported by pipeline may be accounted for on a quantitative basis, based on the bill of lading, or equivalent document of receipt, issued by the pipeline carrier. Unless the Customs Service has reasonable cause to suspect fraud, the Customs Service may accept the bill of lading, or equivalent document of receipt, issued by the pipeline carrier to the shipper and accepted by the consignee to maintain identity. The shipper, pipeline operator, and consignee shall be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of sections 1508 and 1509 of this title.

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title IV, § 553A, as added [Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 664](/us/pl/103/182/tVI/s664), Dec. 8, 1993, [107 Stat. 2215](/us/stat/107/2215).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Another section 553A of act June 17, 1930, is classified to [section 1553–1 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1553–1).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s542). For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) as of Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211), as amended generally by [Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125), and [section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125](/us/pl/114/125/s802/b), set out as a note under [section 211 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s211).
