---
title: "§ 151711. Authorization of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T36-S151711"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section151711"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/112/1407); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1205(b)](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1205/b), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3189](/us/stat/118/3189); [Pub. L. 109–9, title III, § 312(d)](/us/pl/109/9/tIII/s312/d), Apr. 27, 2005, [119 Stat. 226](/us/stat/119/226); [Pub. L. 110–336, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/336/s3/b/1), Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3728](/us/stat/122/3728); [Pub. L. 114–217, § 3(b)](/us/pl/114/217/s3/b), July 29, 2016, [13"
---
# § 151711. Authorization of appropriations

##### § 151711. Authorization of appropriations

(a) Authorization of Appropriations.—

(1) In general.— There are authorized to be appropriated to the Library of Congress amounts necessary to carry out this chapter, not to exceed—

(A) $530,000 for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2009;

(B) $750,000 for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2011; and

(C) $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2012 through 2026.

(2) Matching.— The amounts authorized to be appropriated under this subsection are to be made available to the corporation to match any private contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the corporation by private persons and State and local governments.

(b) Limitation Related to Administrative Expenses.— Amounts authorized under this section may not be used by the corporation for management and general or fundraising expenses as reported to the Internal Revenue Service as part of an annual information return required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1407](/us/stat/112/1407); [Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 1205(b)](/us/pl/108/447/dG/tI/s1205/b), Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 3189](/us/stat/118/3189); [Pub. L. 109–9, title III, § 312(d)](/us/pl/109/9/tIII/s312/d), Apr. 27, 2005, [119 Stat. 226](/us/stat/119/226); [Pub. L. 110–336, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/110/336/s3/b/1), Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3728](/us/stat/122/3728); [Pub. L. 114–217, § 3(b)](/us/pl/114/217/s3/b), July 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 841](/us/stat/130/841).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 151711 | 36:5708. | Oct. 11, 1996, Pub. L. 104–285, title II, § 209, 110 Stat. 3386. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (b), is classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 114–217](/us/pl/114/217) substituted “through 2026” for “through 2016”.

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–336](/us/pl/110/336), which directed that subsec. (a) be “amended to read as follows: by inserting after the first sentence the following:” and then set out subsec. (a) designation and heading and pars. (1) and (2), was executed by substituting the new subsec. (a) designation, heading, and pars. for the existing subsec. (a) to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “There are authorized to be appropriated to the Library of Congress amounts necessary to carry out this chapter, not to exceed $530,000 for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2009. These amounts are to be made available to the corporation to match any private contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the corporation by private persons and State and local governments.”

2005—[Pub. L. 109–9](/us/pl/109/9) added subsecs. (a) and (b) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b) which read as follows:

“(a) Authorization.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Library of Congress amounts necessary to carry out this chapter, not to exceed $250,000 for each of the fiscal years ending September 30, 2000–2005. These amounts are to be made available to the corporation to match private contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the corporation by private persons and State and local governments.

“(b) Limitation Related to Administrative Expenses.—Amounts authorized under this section may not be used by the corporation for administrative expenses of the corporation, including salaries, travel, transportation, and overhead expenses.”

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–447](/us/pl/108/447) substituted “2005” for “2003”.
