---
title: "§ 6874. Cooperation and coordination"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6874"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6874"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 119–62, § 5](/us/pl/119/62/s5), Dec. 26, 2025, [139 Stat. 1981](/us/stat/139/1981).)"
---
# § 6874. Cooperation and coordination

##### § 6874. Cooperation and coordination

(a) Community partners and third-party providers For purposes of carrying out this chapter, the Secretaries may—

(1) coordinate and partner with non-Federal agencies and private sector and nonprofit partners, including—

(A) State natural resource agencies;

(B) Tribal natural resource agencies;

(C) technology companies;

(D) geospatial data companies; and

(E) experts in data science, analytics, and operations research; and

(2) enter into an agreement with a third party to carry out any provision of this chapter.

(b) United States Geological Survey The Secretaries may work with the Director of the United States Geological Survey to collect, aggregate, digitize, standardize, and publish data on behalf of the Secretaries to meet the requirements of this chapter.

(c) Requirement With respect to data developed and distributed under this chapter, the Secretaries shall—

(1) develop the data in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and Tribal laws (including regulations); and

(2) include a notice that any geospatial data are subject to applicable Federal, State, and Tribal laws (including regulations).

(d) Existing efforts To the extent practicable, the Secretary concerned shall use or incorporate existing applicable data, maps, and resources in carrying out this chapter, including data, maps, and resources developed and published under—

(1) the Modernizing Access to Our Public Land Act ([16 U.S.C. 6851](/us/usc/t16/s6851) et seq.);

(2) [section 776 of title 43](/us/usc/t43/s776); or

(3) other applicable law.

*([Pub. L. 119–62, § 5](/us/pl/119/62/s5), Dec. 26, 2025, [139 Stat. 1981](/us/stat/139/1981).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Modernizing Access to Our Public Land Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [Pub. L. 117–114](/us/pl/117/114), Apr. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 1175](/us/stat/136/1175), which is classified generally to chapter 87A (§ 6851 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6851 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6851) and Tables.
