---
title: "§ 300b–14. National contingency plan for newborn screening"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300b–14"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300b–14"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1115, as added [Pub. L. 110–204, § 7](/us/pl/110/204/s7), Apr. 24, 2008, [122 Stat. 711](/us/stat/122/711); amended [Pub. L. 113–240, § 8](/us/pl/113/240/s8), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2855](/us/stat/128/2855).)"
---
# § 300b–14. National contingency plan for newborn screening

##### § 300b–14. National contingency plan for newborn screening

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after April 24, 2008, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and in consultation with the Administrator and State departments of health (or related agencies), shall develop a national contingency plan for newborn screening for use by a State, region, or consortium of States in the event of a public health emergency. The plan shall be updated as needed and at least every five years.

(b) Contents The contingency plan developed under subsection (a) shall include a plan for—

(1) the collection and transport of specimens;

(2) the shipment of specimens to State newborn screening laboratories;

(3) the processing of specimens;

(4) the reporting of screening results to physicians and families;

(5) the diagnostic confirmation of positive screening results;

(6) ensuring the availability of treatment and management resources;

(7) educating families about newborn screening; and

(8) carrying out other activities determined appropriate by the Secretary.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XI, § 1115, as added [Pub. L. 110–204, § 7](/us/pl/110/204/s7), Apr. 24, 2008, [122 Stat. 711](/us/stat/122/711); amended [Pub. L. 113–240, § 8](/us/pl/113/240/s8), Dec. 18, 2014, [128 Stat. 2855](/us/stat/128/2855).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–240](/us/pl/113/240) substituted “consortium” for “consortia” and inserted at end “The plan shall be updated as needed and at least every five years.”
