---
title: "§ 1348. Banking association as party"
identifier: "USC-T28-S1348"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section1348"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 933](/us/stat/62/933).)"
---
# § 1348. Banking association as party

##### § 1348. Banking association as party

The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil action commenced by the United States, or by direction of any officer thereof, against any national banking association, any civil action to wind up the affairs of any such association, and any action by a banking association established in the district for which the court is held, under chapter 2 of Title 12, to enjoin the Comptroller of the Currency, or any receiver acting under his direction, as provided by such chapter.

All national banking associations shall, for the purposes of all other actions by or against them, be deemed citizens of the States in which they are respectively located.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 933](/us/stat/62/933).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 41(16) ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 24](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s24), par. 16, [36 Stat. 1092](/us/stat/36/1092)).

Words “any civil action” were substituted for “all cases,” in view of Rule 2 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

Words “real, personal, or mixed, and all suits in equity,” after “all other actions by or against them,” were omitted as superfluous.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exception as to Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by any provision of law in the Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this section, were not included in the transfer of functions of officers, agencies and employees of the Department of the Treasury to the Secretary of the Treasury, made by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, § 1, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, [64 Stat. 1280](/us/stat/64/1280). See [section 321(c)(2) of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s321/c/2), Money and Finance.
