---
title: "§ 2464. Ethical issues in international health research"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2464"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2464"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–228, div. A, title II, § 228](/us/pl/107/228/dA/tII/s228), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1371](/us/stat/116/1371).)"
---
# § 2464. Ethical issues in international health research

##### § 2464. Ethical issues in international health research

(a) In general The Secretary shall make available funds for international exchanges to provide opportunities to researchers in developing countries to participate in activities related to ethical issues in human subject research, as described in subsection (c).

(b) Coordination with other programs The Secretary shall coordinate programs conducted pursuant to this section with similar programs that may be conducted by the United States Agency for International Development and other Federal agencies as part of United States international health programs, particularly with respect to research and treatment of infectious diseases.

(c) Ethical issues in human subject research For purposes of subsection (a), the phrase “activities related to ethical issues in human subject research” includes courses of study, conferences, and fora on development of and compliance with international ethical standards for clinical trials involving human subjects, particularly with respect to responsibilities of researchers to individuals and local communities participating in such trials, and on management and monitoring of such trials based on such international ethical standards.

*([Pub. L. 107–228, div. A, title II, § 228](/us/pl/107/228/dA/tII/s228), Sept. 30, 2002, [116 Stat. 1371](/us/stat/116/1371).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, and also as part of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, and not as part of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition

For definition of “Secretary” as used in this section, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 107–228](/us/pl/107/228/s3), set out as a note under [section 2651 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2651).
