---
title: "§ 3501. Number of passengers"
identifier: "USC-T46-S3501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section3501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 519](/us/stat/97/519); [Pub. L. 99–36, § 1(a)(2)](/us/pl/99/36/s1/a/2), May 15, 1985, [99 Stat. 67](/us/stat/99/67).)"
---
# § 3501. Number of passengers

##### § 3501. Number of passengers

(a) Each certificate of inspection issued to a vessel carrying passengers (except a ferry) shall include a statement on the number of passengers that the vessel is permitted to carry.

(b) The owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel is liable to a person suing them for carrying more passengers than the number of passengers permitted by the certificate of inspection in an amount equal to—

(1) passage money; and

(2) $100 for each passenger in excess of the number of passengers permitted.

(c) An owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, or individual in charge of a vessel that knowingly carries more passengers than the number of passengers permitted by the certificate of inspection also shall be fined not more than $100, imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.

(d) The vessel also is liable in rem for a penalty under this section.

(e) An offshore supply vessel may not carry passengers except in an emergency.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 519](/us/stat/97/519); [Pub. L. 99–36, § 1(a)(2)](/us/pl/99/36/s1/a/2), May 15, 1985, [99 Stat. 67](/us/stat/99/67).)*

Section 3501 requires that a vessel carrying passengers, including a passenger vessel as well as a small passenger vessel (except a ferry), shall have on the certificate of inspection a statement as to the number of passengers the vessel is permitted to carry. It also provides penalties for carrying passengers in excess of the number permitted.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 3501 | 46:404–146:45146:45246:462 |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1985—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–36, § 1(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/99/36/s1/a/2/A), struck out the comma after “(except a ferry)”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–36, § 1(a)(2)(B)](/us/pl/99/36/s1/a/2/B), substituted “carries more passengers than the number of passengers permitted by the certificate of inspection” for “violates subsection (b) of this section”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Chapter effective Apr. 15, 1984, see [section 2(g)(1) of Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89/s2/g/1), set out as a note under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3101).
