---
title: "§ 6303. Boxing matches in States without boxing commissions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S6303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section6303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–272, § 4](/us/pl/104/272/s4), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3310](/us/stat/110/3310); [Pub. L. 106–210, § 7(e)](/us/pl/106/210/s7/e), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 328](/us/stat/114/328).)"
---
# § 6303. Boxing matches in States without boxing commissions

##### § 6303. Boxing matches in States without boxing commissions

(a) No person may arrange, promote, organize, produce, or fight in a professional boxing match held in a State that does not have a boxing commission unless the match is supervised by a boxing commission from another State and subject to the most recent version of the recommended regulatory guidelines certified and published by the Association of Boxing Commissions as well as any additional relevant professional boxing regulations and requirements of such other State.

(b) For the purpose of this chapter, if no State commission is available to supervise a boxing match according to subsection (a), then—

(1) the match may not be held unless it is supervised by an association of boxing commissions to which at least a majority of the States belong; and

(2) any reporting or other requirement relating to a supervising commission allowed under this section shall be deemed to refer to the entity described in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 104–272, § 4](/us/pl/104/272/s4), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3310](/us/stat/110/3310); [Pub. L. 106–210, § 7(e)](/us/pl/106/210/s7/e), May 26, 2000, [114 Stat. 328](/us/stat/114/328).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2000—[Pub. L. 106–210](/us/pl/106/210) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 1, 1997, see [section 23 of Pub. L. 104–272](/us/pl/104/272/s23), set out as a note under [section 6301 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s6301).
