---
title: "§ 31150. Safety performance history screening"
identifier: "USC-T49-S31150"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section31150"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4117(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4117/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/119/1728).)"
---
# § 31150. Safety performance history screening

##### § 31150. Safety performance history screening

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall provide persons conducting preemployment screening services for the motor carrier industry electronic access to the following reports contained in the Motor Carrier Management Information System:

(1) Commercial motor vehicle accident reports.

(2) Inspection reports that contain no driver-related safety violations.

(3) Serious driver-related safety violation inspection reports.

(b) Conditions on Providing Access.— Before providing a person access to the Motor Carrier Management Information System under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—

(1) ensure that any information that is released to such person will be in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act ([15 U.S.C. 1681](/us/usc/t15/s1681) et seq.) and all other applicable Federal law;

(2) ensure that such person will not conduct a screening without the operator-applicant’s written consent;

(3) ensure that any information that is released to such person will not be released to any person or entity, other than the motor carrier requesting the screening services or the operator-applicant, unless expressly authorized or required by law; and

(4) provide a procedure for the operator-applicant to correct inaccurate information in the System in a timely manner.

(c) Design.— The process for providing access to the Motor Carrier Management Information System under subsection (a) shall be designed to assist the motor carrier industry in assessing an individual operator’s crash and serious safety violation inspection history as a preemployment condition. Use of the process shall not be mandatory and may only be used during the preemployment assessment of an operator-applicant.

(d) Serious Driver-Related Safety Violation Defined.— In this section, the term “serious driver-related violation” means a violation by an operator of a commercial motor vehicle that the Secretary determines will result in the operator being prohibited from continuing to operate a commercial motor vehicle until the violation is corrected.

*(Added [Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, § 4117(a)](/us/pl/109/59/tIV/s4117/a), Aug. 10, 2005, [119 Stat. 1728](/us/stat/119/1728).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Fair Credit Reporting Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is title VI of [Pub. L. 90–321](/us/pl/90/321), as added by [Pub. L. 91–508, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/91/508/tVI/s601), Oct. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/84/1127), which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 1681 et seq.) of chapter 41 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s1601) and Tables.
