---
title: "§ 4088. Confidential business information"
identifier: "USC-T19-S4088"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section4088"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 328](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s328), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 494](/us/stat/119/494).)"
---
# § 4088. Confidential business information

##### § 4088. Confidential business information

The President may not release information received in connection with a review under this part which the President considers to be confidential business information unless the party submitting the confidential business information had notice, at the time of submission, that such information would be released by the President, or such party subsequently consents to the release of the information. To the extent a party submits confidential business information, it shall also provide a nonconfidential version of the information in which the confidential business information is summarized or, if necessary, deleted.

*([Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 328](/us/pl/109/53/tIII/s328), Aug. 2, 2005, [119 Stat. 494](/us/stat/119/494).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section by [section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107/d), see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective and Termination Dates

Section effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see [section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53](/us/pl/109/53/s107), set out as a note under [section 4001 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s4001).
