---
title: "§ 182. Notice of intent to dissolve"
identifier: "USC-T12-S182"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section182"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 5221; [Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 626](/us/act/1955-08-09/ch626), [69 Stat. 546](/us/stat/69/546).)"
---
# § 182. Notice of intent to dissolve

##### § 182. Notice of intent to dissolve

Whenever a vote is taken to go into liquidation it shall be the duty of the board of directors to cause notice of this fact to be certified, under the seal of the association, by its president or cashier, to the Comptroller of the Currency, and publication thereof to be made for a period of two months in every issue of a newspaper published in the city or town in which the association is located, or if no newspaper is there published, then in the newspaper published nearest thereto, that the association is closing up its affairs, and notifying its creditors to present their claims against the association for payment.

*(R.S. § 5221; [Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 626](/us/act/1955-08-09/ch626), [69 Stat. 546](/us/stat/69/546).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 5221 derived from [act June 3, 1864, ch. 106, § 42](/us/act/1864-06-03/ch106/s42), [13 Stat. 112](/us/stat/13/112), which was the National Bank Act. See [section 38 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s38).

#### Amendments

1955—Act Aug. 9, 1955, struck out provisions relating to publication in a newspaper published in the City of New York, and notification to holders of national bank notes to present them for payment.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exception as to Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by any provision of law in Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this section, not included in transfer of functions to Secretary of the Treasury, see note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1).
