---
title: "§ 2151x–1. Assistance for agricultural and industrial alternatives to narcotics production"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2151x–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2151x–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–623, § 6](/us/pl/101/623/s6), Nov. 21, 1990, [104 Stat. 3355](/us/stat/104/3355).)"
---
# § 2151x–1. Assistance for agricultural and industrial alternatives to narcotics production

##### § 2151x–1. Assistance for agricultural and industrial alternatives to narcotics production

(a) Waiver of restrictions For the purpose of reducing dependence upon the production of crops from which narcotic and psychotropic drugs are derived, the President may provide assistance to a foreign country under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ([22 U.S.C. 2151](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and following; relating to development assistance) and chapter 4 of part II of that Act ([22 U.S.C. 2346](/us/usc/t22/s2346) and following; relating to the economic support fund) to promote the production, processing, or the marketing of products or commodities, notwithstanding any other provision of law that would otherwise prohibit the provision of assistance to promote the production, processing, or the marketing of such products or commodities.

(b) Effective date Subsection (a) applies with respect to funds made available for fiscal year 1991 or any fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 101–623, § 6](/us/pl/101/623/s6), Nov. 21, 1990, [104 Stat. 3355](/us/stat/104/3355).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424). Chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Act are classified generally to part I (§ 2151 et seq.) of subchapter I and part IV (§ 2346 et seq.) of subchapter II, respectively, of this chapter. For provisions deeming references to part I of subchapter I to include a reference to [section 2293 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2293), see [section 2293(d)(1) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2293/d/1). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1990, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.
