---
title: "§ 1143a. Studies by Comptroller General"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1143a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1143a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–272, title XI, § 11016(d)](/us/pl/99/272/tXI/s11016/d), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 275](/us/stat/100/275).)"
---
# § 1143a. Studies by Comptroller General

##### § 1143a. Studies by Comptroller General

(1) In general The Comptroller General of the United States may, pursuant to the request of any Member of Congress, study employee benefit plans, including the effects of such plans on employees, participants, and their beneficiaries.

(2) Access to books, documents, etc. For the purpose of conducting studies under this section, the Comptroller General, or any of his duly authorized representatives, shall have access to and the right to examine and copy any books, documents, papers, records, or other recorded information—

The Comptroller General shall not disclose the identity of any individual or employer in making any information obtained under this section available to the public.

(A) within the possession or control of the administrator, sponsor, or employer of and persons providing services to any employee benefit plan, and

(B) which the Comptroller General or his representative finds, in his own judgment, pertinent to such study.

(3) Definitions For purposes of this section, the terms “employee benefit plan”, “participant”, “administrator”, “beneficiary”, “plan sponsor”, “employee”, and “employer” are defined in [section 1002 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1002).

(4) Effective date The preceding provisions of this section shall be effective on April 7, 1986.

*([Pub. L. 99–272, title XI, § 11016(d)](/us/pl/99/272/tXI/s11016/d), Apr. 7, 1986, [100 Stat. 275](/us/stat/100/275).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Single-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1986, and also as part of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, and not as part of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.
