---
title: "§ 901. Authority to prescribe rules for conduct and penalties for violations"
identifier: "USC-T38-S901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 397](/us/stat/105/397); amended [Pub. L. 112–154, title I, § 109](/us/pl/112/154/tI/s109), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1174](/us/stat/126/1174).)"
---
# § 901. Authority to prescribe rules for conduct and penalties for violations

##### § 901. Authority to prescribe rules for conduct and penalties for violations

(a)

(1) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to provide for the maintenance of law and order and the protection of persons and property on Department property.

(2) In this chapter, the term “Department property” means land and buildings that are under the jurisdiction of the Department and are not under control of the Administrator of General Services.

(b) Regulations under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) rules for conduct on Department property; and

(2) the penalties, within the limits specified in subsection (c), for violations of such rules.

(c) Whoever violates any rule prescribed by regulation under subsection (b)(1) shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. The Secretary may prescribe by regulation a maximum fine less than that which would otherwise apply under the preceding sentence or a maximum term of imprisonment of a shorter period than that which would otherwise apply under the preceding sentence, or both. Any such regulation shall apply notwithstanding any provision of title 18 or any other law to the contrary.

(d) The rules prescribed under subsection (a), together with the penalties for violations of such rules, shall be posted conspicuously on property to which they apply.

(e) The Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General before prescribing regulations under this section.

(f)

(1) The Secretary may not prohibit the use of a covered service dog in any facility or on any property of the Department or in any facility or on any property that receives funding from the Secretary.

(2) For purposes of this subsection, a covered service dog is a service dog that has been trained by an entity that is accredited by an appropriate accrediting body that evaluates and accredits organizations which train guide or service dogs.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 397](/us/stat/105/397); amended [Pub. L. 112–154, title I, § 109](/us/pl/112/154/tI/s109), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1174](/us/stat/126/1174).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

Prior section 901 was renumbered [section 2301 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2301).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 218(a) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s218/a) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s2/a).

#### Amendments

2012—Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 112–154](/us/pl/112/154) added subsec. (f).
