---
title: "§ 2119. Motor vehicles"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–519, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/102/519/tI/s101/a), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3384](/us/stat/106/3384); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title VI, § 60003(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/322/tVI/s60003/a/14), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1970](/us/stat/108/1970); [Pub. L. 104–217, § 2](/us/pl/104/217/s2), Oct. 1, 1996, [110 Stat. 3020](/us/stat/110/3020).)"
---
# § 2119. Motor vehicles

##### § 2119. Motor vehicles

(1) be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both,

(2) if serious bodily injury (as defined in [section 1365 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1365), including any conduct that, if the conduct occurred in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, would violate section 2241 or 2242 of this title) results, be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 25 years, or both, and

(3) if death results, be fined under this title or imprisoned for any number of years up to life, or both, or sentenced to death.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–519, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/102/519/tI/s101/a), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3384](/us/stat/106/3384); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title VI, § 60003(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/322/tVI/s60003/a/14), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1970](/us/stat/108/1970); [Pub. L. 104–217, § 2](/us/pl/104/217/s2), Oct. 1, 1996, [110 Stat. 3020](/us/stat/110/3020).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 104–217](/us/pl/104/217) inserted “, including any conduct that, if the conduct occurred in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, would violate section 2241 or 2242 of this title” after “[section 1365 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s1365)”.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–322, § 60003(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/322/s60003/a/14), which directed the amendment of [section 2119(3) of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2119/3) by substituting “, with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm” for “, possessing a firearm as defined in [section 921 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s921),”, was executed by making the substitution in introductory provisions rather than in par. (3), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 103–322, § 60003(a)(14)](/us/pl/103/322/s60003/a/14), inserted before period at end “, or sentenced to death”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Federal Cooperation To Prevent “Carjacking” and Motor Vehicle Theft

[Pub. L. 102–519, title I, § 101(b)](/us/pl/102/519/tI/s101/b), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3384](/us/stat/106/3384), provided that: “In view of the increase of motor vehicle theft with its growing threat to human life and to the economic well-being of the Nation, the Attorney General, acting through the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Attorneys, is urged to work with State and local officials to investigate car thefts, including violations of [section 2119 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s2119), United States Code, for armed carjacking, and as appropriate and consistent with prosecutorial discretion, prosecute persons who allegedly violate such law and other relevant Federal statutes.”
