---
title: "§ 7257d. Expanded research by Secretary of Energy"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7257d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7257d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–188, title I, § 152](/us/pl/107/188/tI/s152), June 12, 2002, [116 Stat. 630](/us/stat/116/630).)"
---
# § 7257d. Expanded research by Secretary of Energy

##### § 7257d. Expanded research by Secretary of Energy

(a) Detection and identification research

(1) In general In conjunction with the working group under [section 247d–6(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s247d–6/a), the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration shall expand, enhance, and intensify research relevant to the rapid detection and identification of pathogens likely to be used in a bioterrorism attack or other agents that may cause a public health emergency.

(2) Authorized activities Activities carried out under paragraph (1) may include—

(A) the improvement of methods for detecting biological agents or toxins of potential use in a biological attack and the testing of such methods under variable conditions;

(B) the improvement or pursuit of methods for testing, verifying, and calibrating new detection and surveillance tools and techniques; and

(C) carrying out other research activities in relevant areas.

(3) Report Not later than 180 days after June 12, 2002, the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, a report setting forth the programs and projects that will be funded prior to the obligation of funds appropriated under subsection (b).

(b) Authorization For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary in each of fiscal years 2002 through 2006.

*([Pub. L. 107–188, title I, § 152](/us/pl/107/188/tI/s152), June 12, 2002, [116 Stat. 630](/us/stat/116/630).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.
