---
title: "§ 1387. Reduction or waiver of complete withdrawal liability; procedures and standards applicable"
identifier: "USC-T29-S1387"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section1387"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4207](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4207), as added [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 104(2)](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s104/2), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/94/1223).)"
---
# § 1387. Reduction or waiver of complete withdrawal liability; procedures and standards applicable

##### § 1387. Reduction or waiver of complete withdrawal liability; procedures and standards applicable

(a) The corporation shall provide by regulation for the reduction or waiver of liability for a complete withdrawal in the event that an employer who has withdrawn from a plan subsequently resumes covered operations under the plan or renews an obligation to contribute under the plan, to the extent that the corporation determines that reduction or waiver of withdrawal liability is consistent with the purposes of this chapter.

(b) The corporation shall prescribe by regulation a procedure and standards for the amendment of plans to provide alternative rules for the reduction or waiver of liability for a complete withdrawal in the event that an employer who has withdrawn from the plan subsequently resumes covered operations or renews an obligation to contribute under the plan. The rules may apply only to the extent that the rules are consistent with the purposes of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–406, title IV, § 4207](/us/pl/93/406/tIV/s4207), as added [Pub. L. 96–364, title I, § 104(2)](/us/pl/96/364/tI/s104/2), Sept. 26, 1980, [94 Stat. 1223](/us/stat/94/1223).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–406](/us/pl/93/406), known as the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Titles I, III, and IV of such Act are classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t29/s1001) and Tables.
