---
title: "§ 280k–1. Research-based dental caries disease management"
identifier: "USC-T42-S280k–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section280k–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399LL–1, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4102(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4102/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 551](/us/stat/124/551); amended [Pub. L. 115–302, § 2(b)](/us/pl/115/302/s2/b), Dec. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 4397](/us/stat/132/4397).)"
---
# § 280k–1. Research-based dental caries disease management

##### § 280k–1. Research-based dental caries disease management

(a) In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award demonstration grants to eligible entities to demonstrate the effectiveness of research-based dental caries disease management activities.

(b) Eligibility To be eligible for a grant under this section, an entity shall—

(1) be a community-based provider of dental services (as defined by the Secretary), including a Federally-qualified health center, a clinic of a hospital owned or operated by a State (or by an instrumentality or a unit of government within a State), a State or local department of health, a dental program of the Indian Health Service, an Indian tribe or tribal organization, or an urban Indian organization (as such terms are defined in [section 1603 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1603)), a health system provider, a private provider of dental services, medical, dental, public health, nursing, nutrition educational institutions, or national organizations involved in improving children’s oral health; and

(2) submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.

(c) Use of funds A grantee shall use amounts received under a grant under this section to demonstrate the effectiveness of research-based dental caries disease management activities.

(d) Use of information The Secretary shall, as practicable and appropriate, utilize information generated from grantees under this section in planning and implementing the oral health education campaign and action for dental health program under [section 280k of this title](/us/usc/t42/s280k).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title III, § 399LL–1, as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4102(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tIV/s4102/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 551](/us/stat/124/551); amended [Pub. L. 115–302, § 2(b)](/us/pl/115/302/s2/b), Dec. 11, 2018, [132 Stat. 4397](/us/stat/132/4397).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 115–302](/us/pl/115/302) substituted “shall, as practicable and appropriate,” for “shall” and “oral health education campaign and action for dental health program” for “public education campaign”.
