---
title: "§ 12774. Other requirements"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12774"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12774"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 234](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s234), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4117](/us/stat/104/4117); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 212(c)](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s212/c), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3757](/us/stat/106/3757).)"
---
# § 12774. Other requirements

##### § 12774. Other requirements

(a) Tenant participation plan A community housing development organization that receives assistance under this part shall provide a plan for and follow a program of tenant participation in management decisions and shall adhere to a fair lease and grievance procedure approved by the participating jurisdiction.

(b) Limitation on assistance A community housing development organization may not receive assistance under this subchapter for any fiscal year in an amount that provides more than 50 percent of the organization’s total operating budget in the fiscal year or $50,000 annually, whichever is greater.

(c) Adjustments of other assistance The Secretary shall take account of assistance provided to a project under this part when adjusting other assistance to be provided to the project as required by [section 3545(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3545/d).

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 234](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s234), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 4117](/us/stat/104/4117); [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 212(c)](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s212/c), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3757](/us/stat/106/3757).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1992—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) struck out “, together with other Federal assistance,” after “in an amount that” and inserted before period “or $50,000 annually, whichever is greater”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550) applicable to unexpended funds allocated under subchapter II of this chapter in fiscal year 1992, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 223 of Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550/s223), set out as a note under [section 12704 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12704).
