---
title: "§ 2370. Notification of Committees on Armed Services with respect to certain nonproliferation and proliferation activities"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2370"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2370"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title X, § 1062, Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4614](/us/stat/122/4614).)"
---
# § 2370. Notification of Committees on Armed Services with respect to certain nonproliferation and proliferation activities

##### § 2370. Notification of Committees on Armed Services with respect to certain nonproliferation and proliferation activities

(a) Notification with respect to nonproliferation activities The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall keep the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives informed with respect to—

(1) any activities undertaken by any such Secretary or the Commission to carry out the purposes and policies of the Secretaries and the Commission with respect to nonproliferation programs; and

(2) any other activities undertaken by any such Secretary or the Commission to prevent the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons or the means of delivery of such weapons.

(b) Notification with respect to proliferation activities in foreign nations

(1) In general The Director of National Intelligence shall keep the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives fully and currently informed with respect to any activities of foreign nations that are significant with respect to the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons or the means of delivery of such weapons.

(2) Fully and currently informed defined For purposes of paragraph (1), the term “fully and currently informed” means the transmittal of credible information with respect to an activity described in such paragraph not later than 60 days after becoming aware of the activity.

*([Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title X, § 1062, Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4614](/us/stat/122/4614).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, and not as part of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 which comprises this chapter.
