---
title: "§ 276c–1. Reports of expenditures by members of American groups or delegations and employees; consolidated reports by congressional committees; public inspection"
identifier: "USC-T22-S276c–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section276c–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–628, § 105(b)](/us/pl/86/628/s105/b), July 12, 1960, [74 Stat. 460](/us/stat/74/460); [Pub. L. 90–137](/us/pl/90/137), pt. IV, § 401(b), Nov. 14, 1967, [81 Stat. 463](/us/stat/81/463); [Pub. L. 94–59, title XI, § 1104](/us/pl/94/59/tXI/s1104), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 299](/us/stat/89/299); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 9(a)(2)](/us/pl/103/437/s9/a/2), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4588](/us/stat/108/4588); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 218(1)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s218/1), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat."
---
# § 276c–1. Reports of expenditures by members of American groups or delegations and employees; consolidated reports by congressional committees; public inspection

##### § 276c–1. Reports of expenditures by members of American groups or delegations and employees; consolidated reports by congressional committees; public inspection

Each chairman or senior member of the House of Representatives and Senate group or delegation of the United States group or delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group, the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary Group, or any similar interparliamentary group of which the United States is a member or participates, by whom or on whose behalf local currencies owned by the United States are made available and expended and/or expenditures are made from funds appropriated for the expenses of such group or delegation, shall file with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate in the case of the group or delegation of the Senate, or with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives in the case of the group or delegation of the House, an itemized report showing all such expenditures made by or on behalf of each Member or employee of the group or delegation together with the purposes of the expenditure, including per diem (lodging and meals), transportation, and other purposes. Within sixty days after the beginning of each regular session of Congress, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs shall prepare consolidated reports showing with respect to each such group or delegation the total amount expended, the purposes of the expenditures, the amount expended for each such purpose, the names of the Members or employees by or on behalf of whom the expenditures were made and the amount expended by or on behalf of each Member or employee for each such purpose. The consolidated reports prepared by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate shall be filed with the Secretary of the Senate, and the consolidated reports prepared by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House shall be filed with the Clerk of the House and shall be open to public inspection.

*([Pub. L. 86–628, § 105(b)](/us/pl/86/628/s105/b), July 12, 1960, [74 Stat. 460](/us/stat/74/460); [Pub. L. 90–137](/us/pl/90/137), pt. IV, § 401(b), Nov. 14, 1967, [81 Stat. 463](/us/stat/81/463); [Pub. L. 94–59, title XI, § 1104](/us/pl/94/59/tXI/s1104), July 25, 1975, [89 Stat. 299](/us/stat/89/299); [Pub. L. 103–437, § 9(a)(2)](/us/pl/103/437/s9/a/2), Nov. 2, 1994, [108 Stat. 4588](/us/stat/108/4588); [Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 218(1)](/us/pl/104/186/tII/s218/1), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1747](/us/stat/110/1747); [Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 701(b)(2)]](/us/pl/106/113/dB/s1000/a/7/dA/tVII/s701/b/2), Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1536](/us/stat/113/1536), 1501A–459.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—[Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113) substituted “NATO Parliamentary Assembly” for “North Atlantic Assembly”.

1996—[Pub. L. 104–186](/us/pl/104/186) substituted “Clerk” for “Committee on House Administration” in last sentence.

1994—[Pub. L. 103–437](/us/pl/103/437) substituted “Foreign Affairs” for “International Relations” wherever appearing.

1975—[Pub. L. 94–59](/us/pl/94/59) brought reporting requirements into conformity with other foreign travel expense reporting requirements and into conformity with rules of House of Representatives.

1967—[Pub. L. 90–137](/us/pl/90/137) substituted “North Atlantic Assembly” for “NATO parliamentarian’s Conference”.
