---
title: "§ 9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9402"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9402"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 560](/us/stat/70A/560), § 9302; renumbered § 9402, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(d)(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/d/2/A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3813](/us/stat/134/3813), 3814; [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, § 1081(a)(36)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tX/s1081/a/36), Dec. 2"
---
# § 9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools

##### § 9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools

(a) So far as consistent with the requirements of military training and service, and under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force with the approval of the President, enlisted members of the Air Force and enlisted members of the Space Force shall be permitted to study and receive instruction to increase their military efficiency and to enable them to return to civilian life better equipped for industrial, commercial, and business occupations. Part of this instruction may be vocational education in agriculture or the mechanic arts. Civilian teachers may be employed to aid Air Force officers and Space Force officers in this instruction.

(b) Schools for the instruction of enlisted members of the Air Force or the Space Force in the common branches of education, including United States history, shall be maintained at all air bases at which members of the Air Force or the Space Force are stationed. The Secretary may detail members of the Air Force or the Space Force to carry out this subsection. The commander of each air base where schools are maintained under this subsection shall provide a suitable room or building for school and religious purposes.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 560](/us/stat/70A/560), § 9302; renumbered § 9402, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/a/3), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1832](/us/stat/132/1832); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 923(d)(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s923/d/2/A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3813](/us/stat/134/3813), 3814; [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, § 1081(a)(36)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tX/s1081/a/36), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1921](/us/stat/135/1921).)*

In subsection (a), the first 12 words are substituted for 10:1176 (1st 5, and last 18, words). The words “and the Secretary of the Army shall have the power at all times to suspend, increase, or decrease the amount of such instruction offered” are omitted as surplusage.

In subsection (b), the words “garrisons, and permanent camps” are omitted as covered by the word “posts”. The word “including” is substituted for the words “and especially in”. The word “members” is substituted for the words “officers and enlisted men”. The words “as may be necessary”, “It * * * be the duty”, and “or garrison” are omitted as surplusage.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9302(a)9302(b) | 10:1176.10:1172. | June 3, 1916, ch. 134, § 27 (last par.), 39 Stat. 186. |
|  |  | R.S. 1231. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 117–81](/us/pl/117/81) substituted “Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools” for “Enlisted members Air Force or Space Force: schools” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(d)(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/d/2/B), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as follows: “Enlisted members of Air Force: schools”.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(d)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/d/2/A/i), inserted “and enlisted members of the Space Force” after “members of the Air Force” and “and Space Force officers” after “Air Force officers”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 923(d)(2)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/283/s923/d/2/A/ii), inserted “or the Space Force” after “Air Force” wherever appearing.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 9302 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9302) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of President under subsec. (a) of this section delegated to Secretary of Defense, see section 1(6) of Ex. Ord. No. 11390, Jan. 22, 1968, 33 F.R. 841, set out as a note under [section 301 of Title 3](/us/usc/t3/s301), The President.
