---
title: "§ 1135. Secretary of Transportation’s responses to safety recommendations"
identifier: "USC-T49-S1135"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section1135"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 755](/us/stat/108/755); [Pub. L. 108–168, § 6](/us/pl/108/168/s6), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/117/2034); [Pub. L. 109–443, § 2(b)](/us/pl/109/443/s2/b), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3298](/us/stat/120/3298); [Pub. L. 111–216, title II, § 202](/us/pl/111/216/tII/s202), Aug. 1, 2010, [124 Stat. 2351](/us/stat/124/2351); [Pub. L. 111–249, § 6(1)](/us/pl/111/249/s6/1), (2), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/1"
---
# § 1135. Secretary of Transportation’s responses to safety recommendations

##### § 1135. Secretary of Transportation’s responses to safety recommendations

(a) General.— When the National Transportation Safety Board submits a recommendation about transportation safety to the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary shall give to the Board a formal written response to each recommendation not later than 90 days after receiving the recommendation. The response shall indicate whether the Secretary intends—

(1) to carry out procedures to adopt the complete recommendation;

(2) to carry out procedures to adopt a part of the recommendation; or

(3) to refuse to carry out procedures to adopt the recommendation.

(b) Timetable for Completing Procedures and Reasons for Refusals.— A response under subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall include a copy of a proposed timetable for completing the procedures. A response under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall detail the reasons for the refusal to carry out procedures on the remainder of the recommendation. A response under subsection (a)(3) of this section shall detail the reasons for the refusal to carry out procedures.

(c) Public Availability.— The Board shall make a copy of each recommendation and response available to the public—

(1) in electronic form at no cost in a publicly accessible database on a website of the Board; and

(2) if the electronic form required in paragraph (1) is not printable, in printed form upon a reasonable request at a reasonable cost.

(d) Annual Report on Air Carrier Safety Recommendations.—

(1) In general.— The Secretary shall submit to Congress and the Board, on an annual basis, a report on the recommendations made by the Board to the Secretary regarding air carrier operations conducted under part 121 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.

(2) Recommendations to be covered.— The report shall cover—

(A) any recommendation for which the Secretary has developed, or intends to develop, procedures to adopt the recommendation or part of the recommendation, but has yet to complete the procedures; and

(B) any recommendation for which the Secretary, in the preceding year, has issued a response under subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3) refusing to carry out all or part of the procedures to adopt the recommendation.

(3) Contents.—

(A) Plans to adopt recommendations.— For each recommendation of the Board described in paragraph (2)(A), the report shall contain—

(i) a description of the recommendation;

(ii) a description of the procedures planned for adopting the recommendation or part of the recommendation;

(iii) the proposed date for completing the procedures; and

(iv) if the Secretary has not met a deadline contained in a proposed timeline developed in connection with the recommendation under subsection (b), an explanation for not meeting the deadline.

(B) Refusals to adopt recommendations.— For each recommendation of the Board described in paragraph (2)(B), the report shall contain—

(i) a description of the recommendation; and

(ii) a description of the reasons for the refusal to carry out all or part of the procedures to adopt the recommendation.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/d), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 755](/us/stat/108/755); [Pub. L. 108–168, § 6](/us/pl/108/168/s6), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2034](/us/stat/117/2034); [Pub. L. 109–443, § 2(b)](/us/pl/109/443/s2/b), Dec. 21, 2006, [120 Stat. 3298](/us/stat/120/3298); [Pub. L. 111–216, title II, § 202](/us/pl/111/216/tII/s202), Aug. 1, 2010, [124 Stat. 2351](/us/stat/124/2351); [Pub. L. 111–249, § 6(1)](/us/pl/111/249/s6/1), (2), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/124/2628); [Pub. L. 118–63, title XII](/us/pl/118/63/tXII), §§ 1214, 1220(a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1426](/us/stat/138/1426), 1432.)*

In subsections (a) and (b), the words “carry out” are substituted for “initiate and conduct” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

In subsection (a)(1), the word “complete” is substituted for “in full” for consistency in the revised title.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1135(a), (b) | 49 App.:1906(a) (less last sentence). | Jan. 3, 1975, Pub. L. 93–633, § 307(a), 88 Stat. 2172; Nov. 3, 1981, Pub. L. 97–74, § 6, 95 Stat. 1066; July 19, 1988, Pub. L. 100–372, § 3(b), 102 Stat. 876. |
| 1135(c) | 49 App.:1906(a) (last sentence). |  |
| 1135(d) | 49 App.:1906(b). | Jan. 3, 1975, Pub. L. 93–633, 88 Stat. 2156, § 307(b); added Nov. 3, 1981, Pub. L. 97–74, § 6, 95 Stat. 1066. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 1214](/us/pl/118/63/s1214), substituted “public—” and pars. (1) and (2) for “public at reasonable cost.”

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 118–63, § 1220(a)](/us/pl/118/63/s1220/a), struck out subsec. (e), which required the Secretary to annually submit regulatory status reports to Congress.

2010—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 111–216, § 202(a)](/us/pl/111/216/s202/a), as amended by [Pub. L. 111–249, § 6(1)](/us/pl/111/249/s6/1), inserted “to the Board” after “shall give” in introductory provisions.

Subsecs. (d), (e). [Pub. L. 111–216, § 202(b)](/us/pl/111/216/s202/b), as amended by [Pub. L. 111–249, § 6(2)](/us/pl/111/249/s6/2), added subsec. (d) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (e).

2006—Subsec. (d)(3). [Pub. L. 109–443](/us/pl/109/443) amended heading and text of par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “This subsection shall cease to be in effect after the report required to be filed on February 1, 2008, is filed.”

2003—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–168](/us/pl/108/168) amended heading and text of subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall submit to Congress on January 1 of each year a report containing each recommendation on transportation safety made by the Board to the Secretary during the prior year and a copy of the Secretary’s response to each recommendation.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment

[Pub. L. 111–249, § 6](/us/pl/111/249/s6), Sept. 30, 2010, [124 Stat. 2628](/us/stat/124/2628), provided that the amendments made by [section 6 of Pub. L. 111–249](/us/pl/111/249/s6) are effective as of Aug. 1, 2010, and as if included in [Pub. L. 111–216](/us/pl/111/216) as enacted.

#### Reports on Certain Open Safety Recommendations

[Pub. L. 108–168, § 9](/us/pl/108/168/s9), Dec. 6, 2003, [117 Stat. 2035](/us/stat/117/2035), provided that: “(a) Initial Report.—Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 6, 2003], the Secretary of Transportation shall submit a report to Congress and the National Transportation Safety Board containing the regulatory status of each open safety recommendation made by the Board to the Secretary concerning—“(1) 15-passenger van safety; “(2) railroad grade crossing safety; and “(3) medical certifications for a commercial driver’s license. “(b) Biennial Updates.—The Secretary shall continue to report on the regulatory status of each such recommendation (and any subsequent recommendation made by the Board to the Secretary concerning a matter described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a)) at 2-year intervals until—“(1) final regulatory action has been taken on the recommendation; “(2) the Secretary determines, and states in the report, that no action should be taken on that recommendation; or “(3) the report, if any, required to be submitted in 2008 is submitted. “(c) Failure To Report.—If the Board has not received a report required to be submitted under subsection (a) or (b) within 30 days after the date on which that report is required to be submitted, the Board shall notify the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.”

#### NTSB Safety Recommendations

[Pub. L. 107–355, § 19](/us/pl/107/355/s19), Dec. 17, 2002, [116 Stat. 3009](/us/stat/116/3009), as amended by [Pub. L. 108–426, § 2(c)(3)](/us/pl/108/426/s2/c/3), Nov. 30, 2004, [118 Stat. 2424](/us/stat/118/2424), provided that: “(a) In General.—The Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and the Director of the Office of Pipeline Safety shall fully comply with [section 1135 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s1135), United States Code, to ensure timely responsiveness to National Transportation Safety Board recommendations about pipeline safety. “(b) Public Availability.—The Secretary, Administrator, or Director, respectively, shall make a copy of each recommendation on pipeline safety and response, as described in subsections (a) and (b) of section 1135, title 49, United States Code. “(c) Reports to Congress.—The Secretary, Administrator, or Director, respectively, shall submit to Congress by January 1 of each year a report containing each recommendation on pipeline safety made by the Board during the prior year and a copy of the response to each such recommendation.”
