---
title: "§ 1446a–1. Use of Commodity Credit Corporation funds for purchases of dairy products requirements for school and other programs"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1446a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1446a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–321, title VII, § 709](/us/pl/89/321/tVII/s709), Nov. 3, 1965, [79 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/79/1212); [Pub. L. 89–808, § 3(b)](/us/pl/89/808/s3/b), Nov. 11, 1966, [80 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/80/1538).)"
---
# § 1446a–1. Use of Commodity Credit Corporation funds for purchases of dairy products requirements for school and other programs

##### § 1446a–1. Use of Commodity Credit Corporation funds for purchases of dairy products requirements for school and other programs

The Secretary of Agriculture is hereby authorized to use funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to purchase sufficient supplies of dairy products at market prices to meet the requirements of any programs for the schools (other than fluid milk in the case of schools), domestic relief distribution, community action, and such other programs as are authorized by law, when there are insufficient stocks of dairy products in the hands of Commodity Credit Corporation available for these purposes.

*([Pub. L. 89–321, title VII, § 709](/us/pl/89/321/tVII/s709), Nov. 3, 1965, [79 Stat. 1212](/us/stat/79/1212); [Pub. L. 89–808, § 3(b)](/us/pl/89/808/s3/b), Nov. 11, 1966, [80 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/80/1538).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1965, and not as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1421) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1966—[Pub. L. 89–808](/us/pl/89/808) struck out “foreign distribution,” after “community action,”, thus deleting that part authorizing purchase of dairy products for foreign donation, such authority now being included in the general authority provided for by section 1721 et seq. of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1966 Amendment

[Pub. L. 89–808, § 3(b)](/us/pl/89/808/s3/b), Nov. 11, 1966, [80 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/80/1538), provided that the amendment made by section 3(b) is effective Jan. 1, 1967.

#### Commodity Distribution Program; Prohibition on Furnishing Commodities to Summer Camps

Prohibition on furnishing commodities under authority of this section to summer camps where number of adults participating in activities of camp exceeds one for each five children under 18 years of age participating in such activities, see [section 4(b) of Pub. L. 93–86](/us/pl/93/86/s4/b), Aug. 10, 1973, [87 Stat. 249](/us/stat/87/249), set out as a note under [section 612c of this title](/us/usc/t7/s612c).
