---
title: "§ 122. South Dakota"
identifier: "USC-T28-S122"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section122"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 889](/us/stat/62/889); [Pub. L. 89–638](/us/pl/89/638), Oct. 10, 1966, [80 Stat. 883](/us/stat/80/883); [Pub. L. 92–376](/us/pl/92/376), Aug. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 529](/us/stat/86/529); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 324(b)](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s324/b), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5120](/us/stat/104/5120).)"
---
# § 122. South Dakota

##### § 122. South Dakota

(1) The Northern Division comprises the counties of Brown, Campbell, Clark, Codington, Corson, Day, Deuel, Edmonds, Grant, Hamlin, McPherson, Marshall, Roberts, Spink, and Walworth.Court for the Northern Division shall be held at Aberdeen.

(2) The Southern Division comprises the counties of Aurora, Beadle, Bon Homme, Brookings, Brule, Charles Mix, Clay, Davison, Douglas, Hanson, Hutchinson, Kingsbury, Lake, Lincoln, McCook, Miner, Minnehaha, Moody, Sanborn, Turner, Union, and Yankton.Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Sioux Falls.

(3) The central division comprises the counties of Buffalo, Dewey, Faulk, Gregory, Haakon, Hand, Hughes, Hyde, Jerauld, Jones, Lyman, Mellette, Potter, Stanley, Sully, Todd, Tripp, and Ziebach.Court for the Central Division shall be held at Pierre.

(4) The Western Division comprises the counties of Bennett, Butte, Custer, Fall River, Harding, Jackson, Lawrence, Meade, Pennington, Perkins, and Shannon.Court for the Western Division shall be held at Deadwood and Rapid City.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 889](/us/stat/62/889); [Pub. L. 89–638](/us/pl/89/638), Oct. 10, 1966, [80 Stat. 883](/us/stat/80/883); [Pub. L. 92–376](/us/pl/92/376), Aug. 10, 1972, [86 Stat. 529](/us/stat/86/529); [Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 324(b)](/us/pl/101/650/tIII/s324/b), Dec. 1, 1990, [104 Stat. 5120](/us/stat/104/5120).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 187 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 106](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s106), [36 Stat. 1123](/us/stat/36/1123); [June 11, 1932, ch. 242](/us/act/1932-06-11/ch242), [47 Stat. 300](/us/stat/47/300)).

A provision relating to maintenance of offices by the clerk was omitted as covered by sections 452 and 751 of this title.

Provisions that the Northern Division included Lake Traverse Indian Reservation and that part of Standing Rock Indian Reservation lying in South Dakota; that the Southern Division included the Yorkton Indian Reservation; that the Central Division included the Cheyenne River, Lower Brule, and Crow Creek Indian Reservations; and that the Western Division included Rosebud and Pine Ridge Indian Reservations, were all omitted as surplusage. (See Reviser’s Note under [section 114 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s114).)

Changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1990—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 101–650, § 324(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/650/s324/b/1), struck out “Jackson,” after “Hyde,”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 101–650, § 324(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/650/s324/b/2), inserted “Jackson,” after “Harding,” and substituted “and Shannon” for “Shannon, Washabaugh, and Washington”.

1972—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 92–376, § 1(a)](/us/pl/92/376/s1/a), removed Gregory County from the Southern Division.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 92–376, § 1(b)](/us/pl/92/376/s1/b), added Gregory, Mellette, Todd, and Tripp counties to the Central Division and removed Armstrong county from the Central Division.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 92–376, § 1(c)](/us/pl/92/376/s1/c), removed Mellette, Todd, and Tripp counties from the Western Division.

1966—[Pub. L. 89–638](/us/pl/89/638) provided for holding court at Rapid City.
