---
title: "§ 3357. Findings and statement of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3357"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3357"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5511](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5511), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3308](/us/stat/136/3308).)"
---
# § 3357. Findings and statement of policy

##### § 3357. Findings and statement of policy

(a) Findings Congress finds the following:

(1) Advancing peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific has been a central element of United States foreign policy toward the region.

(2) The Government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), especially since the election of Tsai Ing-Wen in 2016, has conducted a coordinated campaign to weaken Taiwan diplomatically, economically, and militarily in a manner that threatens to erode United States policy and create a fait accompli on questions surrounding Taiwan’s future.

(3) To secure United States interests and preserve the ability of the people of Taiwan to determine their own future, it is necessary to reinforce Taiwan’s diplomatic, economic, and territorial space.

(b) Statement of policy It is the policy of the United States to—

(1) maintain the position that peace and stability in the Western Pacific are in the political, security, and economic interests of the United States, and are matters of international concern; and

(2) work with allies and partners to promote peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific and deter military acts or other forms of coercive behavior that would undermine regional stability.

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, § 5511](/us/pl/117/263/dE/tLV/s5511), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3308](/us/stat/136/3308).)*
