---
title: "§ 2501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, § 4002](/us/pl/107/314/dD/s4002), as added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(c)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/c/2), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1756](/us/stat/117/1756); amended [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3131/a/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2179](/us/stat/126/2179); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(a)(1)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3146/a/1), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/127/1072); [Pub."
---
# § 2501. Definitions

##### § 2501. Definitions

(1) The term “Administration” means the National Nuclear Security Administration.

(2) The term “Administrator” means the Administrator for Nuclear Security.

(3) The term “classified information” means any information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order No. 12333 of December 4, 1981 ([50 U.S.C. 3001](/us/usc/t50/s3001) note), Executive Order No. 12958 of April 17, 1995 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note), Executive Order No. 13526 of December 29, 2009 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note), or successor orders, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.

(4) The term “congressional defense committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(5) The terms “defense nuclear facility” and “Department of Energy defense nuclear facility” have the meaning given the term “Department of Energy defense nuclear facility” in [section 2286g of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2286g).

(6) The term “nuclear security enterprise” means the physical facilities, technology, and human capital of the national security laboratories and the nuclear weapons production facilities.

(7) The term “national security laboratory” means any of the following:

(A) Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico.

(B) Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Livermore, California.

(C) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California.

(8) The term “Nuclear Weapons Council” means the Nuclear Weapons Council established by [section 179 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s179).

(9) The term “nuclear weapons production facility” means any of the following:

(A) The Kansas City National Security Campus, Kansas City, Missouri.

(B) The Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.

(C) The Y–12 National Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

(D) The Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina.

(E) The Nevada National Security Site, Nevada.

(F) Any facility of the Department of Energy that the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Administrator and Congress, determines to be consistent with the mission of the Administration.

(10) The term “Restricted Data” has the meaning given such term in [section 2014(y) of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2014/y).

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, § 4002](/us/pl/107/314/dD/s4002), as added [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(c)(2)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/c/2), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1756](/us/stat/117/1756); amended [Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(a)(1)](/us/pl/112/239/dC/tXXXI/s3131/a/1), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2179](/us/stat/126/2179); [Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(a)(1)](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3146/a/1), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1072](/us/stat/127/1072); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. C, title XXXI, § 3142(a)](/us/pl/113/291/dC/tXXXI/s3142/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3900](/us/stat/128/3900); [Pub. L. 116–92, div. C, title XXXI, § 3139(b)(1)](/us/pl/116/92/dC/tXXXI/s3139/b/1), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1962](/us/stat/133/1962).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order No. 12958, referred to in par. (3), which was formerly set out as a note under section 435 (now section 3161) of this title, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13526, § 6.2(g), Dec. 29, 2009, 75 F.R. 731.

#### Amendments

2019—Par. (9)(A). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “National Security Campus” for “Plant”.

2014—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291) substituted “Executive Order No. 12333 of December 4, 1981 ([50 U.S.C. 3001](/us/usc/t50/s3001) note), Executive Order No. 12958 of April 17, 1995 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note), Executive Order No. 13526 of December 29, 2009 ([50 U.S.C. 3161](/us/usc/t50/s3161) note),” for “Executive Order No. 12333 of December 4, 1981 ([50 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t50/s401) note), Executive Order No. 12958 of April 17, 1995 ([50 U.S.C. 435](/us/usc/t50/s435) note),”.

2013—[Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/a/1/A), substituted “Except as otherwise provided, in this chapter” for “In this chapter” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section defined “congressional defense committees”.

Pars. (5) to (10). [Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/113/66/s3146/a/1/B)–(E), added pars. (5) and (8), redesignated former pars. (5), (6), (7), and (8) as (6), (7), (9), and (10), respectively, and, in par. (10), substituted “Restricted Data” for “restricted data”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, § 4001(a)](/us/pl/107/314/dD/s4001/a), formerly div. C, title XXXVI, § 3601, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2756](/us/stat/116/2756), renumbered div. D, § 4001, and amended by [Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(c)(1)(A)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/c/1/A)–(D)(ii), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1753](/us/stat/117/1753), provided that: “This division [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Atomic Energy Defense Act’.”

#### Transfer and Consolidation of Recurring and General Provisions on Department of Energy National Security Programs

[Pub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXI, § 3141(a)](/us/pl/108/136/dC/tXXXI/s3141/a), Nov. 24, 2003, [117 Stat. 1752](/us/stat/117/1752), provided that: “(1) In general.—The purpose of this section [see Tables for classification] is to assemble together, without substantive amendment but with technical and conforming amendments of a non-substantive nature, recurring and general provisions of law on Department of Energy national security programs that remain in force in order to consolidate and organize such provisions of law into a single Act intended to comprise general provisions of law on such programs. “(2) Construction of transfers.—The transfer of a provision of law by this section shall not be construed as amending, altering, or otherwise modifying the substantive effect of such provision. “(3) Treatment of satisfied requirements.—Any requirement in a provision of law transferred under this section (including a requirement that an amendment to law be executed) that has been fully satisfied in accordance with the terms of such provision of law as of the date of transfer under this section shall be treated as so fully satisfied, and shall not be treated as being revived solely by reason of transfer under this section. “(4) Classification.—The provisions of the Atomic Energy Defense Act [[Pub. L. 107–314, div. D](/us/pl/107/314/dD), [50 U.S.C. 2501](/us/usc/t50/s2501) et seq.], as amended by this section, shall be classified to the United States Code as a new chapter of title 50, United States Code.”
