---
title: "§ 44114. Privacy"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title VIII, § 803(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVIII/s803/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/138/1321).)"
---
# § 44114. Privacy

##### § 44114. Privacy

(a) In General.— Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including [section 552(b)(3) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3), the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall establish and update as necessary a process by which, upon request of a private aircraft owner or operator, the Administrator withholds the registration number and other similar identifiable data or information, except for physical markings required by law, of the aircraft of the owner or operator from any broad dissemination or display (except in furnished data or information made available to or from a Government agency pursuant to a government contract, subcontract, or agreement, including for traffic management purposes) for the noncommercial flights of the owner or operator.

(b) Withholding Personally Identifiable Information on the Aircraft Registry.— Not later than 2 years after the enactment of this Act and notwithstanding any other provision of law, including [section 552(b)(3) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3), the Administrator shall establish a procedure by which, upon request of a private aircraft owner or operator, the Administrator shall withhold from broad dissemination or display by the FAA (except in furnished data or information made available to or from a Government agency pursuant to a government contract, subcontract, or agreement, including for traffic management purposes) the personally identifiable information of such individual, including on a publicly available website of the FAA.

(c) ICAO Aircraft Identification Code.—

(1) In general.— The Administrator shall establish a program for aircraft owners and operators to apply for a new ICAO aircraft identification code.

(2) Limitations.— In carrying out the program described in paragraph (1), the Administrator shall require—

(A) each applicant to attest to a safety or security need in applying for a new ICAO aircraft identification code; and

(B) each approved applicant who obtains a new ICAO aircraft identification code to comply with all applicable aspects of, or related to, part 45 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, including updating an aircraft’s registration number and N–Number to reflect such aircraft’s new ICAO aircraft identification code.

(d) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) ADS–B.— The term “ADS–B” means automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast.

(2) ICAO.— The term “ICAO” means the International Civil Aviation Organization.

(3) Personally identifiable information.— The term “personally identifiable information” means—

(A) the mailing address or registration address of an individual;

(B) an electronic address (including an email address) of an individual; or 11 So in original.

(C) the telephone number of an individual.^1

(D) the names of the aircraft owner or operator, if the owner or operator is an individual.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–63, title VIII, § 803(a)](/us/pl/118/63/tVIII/s803/a), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1321](/us/stat/138/1321).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the enactment of [Pub. L. 118–63](/us/pl/118/63), which enacted this section and was approved May 16, 2024.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in subsec. (a) of this section were contained in [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, § 566](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tV/s566), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3385](/us/stat/132/3385), which was set out as a note under [section 44103 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s44103) prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 118–63, title VIII, § 803(c)](/us/pl/118/63/tVIII/s803/c), May 16, 2024, [138 Stat. 1322](/us/stat/138/1322).
