---
title: "§ 460nnn–104. Land exchange, Lowther (Clemens) Ranch"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460nnn–104"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460nnn–104"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–399, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/106/399/tVI/s604), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/114/1672).)"
---
# § 460nnn–104. Land exchange, Lowther (Clemens) Ranch

##### § 460nnn–104. Land exchange, Lowther (Clemens) Ranch

(a) Exchange authorized For the purpose of protecting and consolidating Federal lands within the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, the Secretary may carry out a land exchange with the Lowther (Clemens) Ranch to convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to certain parcels of land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management in the vicinity of Steens Mountain, Oregon, as depicted on the map referred to in [section 460nnn–105(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460nnn–105/a), consisting of a total of approximately 11,796 acres in exchange for the private lands described in subsection (b).

(b) Receipt of non-Federal lands As consideration for the conveyance of the Federal lands referred to in subsection (a) and the disbursement referred to in subsection (d), the Lowther (Clemens) Ranch shall convey to the Secretary a parcel of land consisting of approximately 1,078 acres, as depicted on the map referred to in [section 460nnn–105(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460nnn–105/a), for inclusion in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area.

(c) Treatment of grazing Paragraphs (2) and (3) of [section 460nnn–23(e) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460nnn–23/e), relating to the effect of the cancellation in whole of the grazing permit for the Fish Creek/Big Indian allotment in the Wilderness Area and reassignment of use areas as described in paragraph (3)(D) of such section, shall apply to the land exchange authorized by this section.

(d) Disbursement Upon completion of the land exchange authorized by this section, the Secretary is authorized to make a disbursement to Lowther (Clemens) Ranch, in the amount of $148,000.

(e) Completion of conveyance The Secretary shall complete the conveyance of the Federal lands under subsection (a) within 70 days after the Secretary accepts the lands described in subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 106–399, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/106/399/tVI/s604), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1672](/us/stat/114/1672).)*
