---
title: "§ 3043a. National intelligence strategy"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3043a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3043a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 108A, as added [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s303/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3994](/us/stat/128/3994).)"
---
# § 3043a. National intelligence strategy

##### § 3043a. National intelligence strategy

(a) In general Beginning in 2017, and once every 4 years thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall develop a comprehensive national intelligence strategy to meet national security objectives for the following 4-year period, or a longer period, if appropriate.

(b) Requirements Each national intelligence strategy required by subsection (a) shall—

(1) delineate a national intelligence strategy consistent with—

(A) the most recent national security strategy report submitted pursuant to [section 3043 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3043);

(B) the strategic plans of other relevant departments and agencies of the United States; and

(C) other relevant national-level plans;

(2) address matters related to national and military intelligence, including counterintelligence;

(3) identify the major national security missions that the intelligence community is currently pursuing and will pursue in the future to meet the anticipated security environment;

(4) describe how the intelligence community will utilize personnel, technology, partnerships, and other capabilities to pursue the major national security missions identified in paragraph (3);

(5) assess current, emerging, and future threats to the intelligence community, including threats from foreign intelligence and security services and insider threats;

(6) outline the organizational roles and missions of the elements of the intelligence community as part of an integrated enterprise to meet customer demands for intelligence products, services, and support;

(7) identify sources of strategic, institutional, programmatic, fiscal, and technological risk; and

(8) analyze factors that may affect the intelligence community’s performance in pursuing the major national security missions identified in paragraph (3) during the following 10-year period.

(c) Submission to Congress The Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on each national intelligence strategy required by subsection (a) not later than 45 days after the date of the completion of such strategy.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 108A, as added [Pub. L. 113–293, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/113/293/tIII/s303/a), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3994](/us/stat/128/3994).)*
