---
title: "§ 2601. Collection and adjustment of debts"
identifier: "USC-T39-S2601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section2601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 744](/us/stat/84/744); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)"
---
# § 2601. Collection and adjustment of debts

##### § 2601. Collection and adjustment of debts

(a) The Postal Service—

The Postal Service may refer any matter, which is uncollectable through administrative action, to the Government Accountability Office for collection. This subsection does not affect the authority of the Attorney General in cases in which judicial proceedings are instituted.

(1) shall collect debts due the Postal Service;

(2) shall collect and remit fines, penalties, and forfeitures arising out of matters affecting the Postal Service;

(3) may adjust, pay, or credit the account of a postmaster or of an enlisted person of an Armed Force performing postal duties, for any loss of Postal Service funds, papers, postage, or other stamped stock or accountable paper; and

(4) may prescribe penalties for failure to render accounts.

(b) In all cases of disability or alleged liability for any sum of money by way of damages or otherwise, under any provision of law in relation to the officers, employees, operations, or business of the Postal Service, the Postal Service shall determine whether the interests of the Postal Service probably require the exercise of its powers over the same. Upon the determination, the Postal Service on such terms as it deems just and expedient, may—

(1) remove the disability; or

(2) compromise, release, or discharge the claim for such sum of money and damages.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 744](/us/stat/84/744); [Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b)](/us/pl/108/271/s8/b), July 7, 2004, [118 Stat. 814](/us/stat/118/814).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–271](/us/pl/108/271) substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office” in concluding provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).
