---
title: "§ 8942. Rifles and ammunition for target practice: educational institutions having corps of midshipmen"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8942"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8942"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 377(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s377/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 85](/us/stat/122/85), § 7912; renumbered § 8942, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(15)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/15), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1837](/us/stat/132/1837).)"
---
# § 8942. Rifles and ammunition for target practice: educational institutions having corps of midshipmen

##### § 8942. Rifles and ammunition for target practice: educational institutions having corps of midshipmen

(a) Authority To Lend.— The Secretary of the Navy may lend, without expense to the United States, magazine rifles and appendages that are not of the existing service models in use at the time and that are not necessary for a proper reserve supply, to any educational institution having a uniformed corps of midshipmen of sufficient number for target practice. The Secretary may also issue 40 rounds of ball cartridges for each midshipman for each range at which target practice is held, but not more than 120 rounds each year for each midshipman participating in target practice.

(b) Responsibilities of Institutions.— The institutions to which property is lent under subsection (a) shall—

(1) use the property for target practice;

(2) take proper care of the property; and

(3) return the property when required.

(c) Regulations.— The Secretary of the Navy shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section, containing such other requirements as he considers necessary to safeguard the interests of the United States.

*(Added [Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 377(a)](/us/pl/110/181/dA/tIII/s377/a), Jan. 28, 2008, [122 Stat. 85](/us/stat/122/85), § 7912; renumbered § 8942, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(15)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/15), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1837](/us/stat/132/1837).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7912 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7912) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
