---
title: "§ 382. Execution and administration of programs and activities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S382"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section382"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(m)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/m), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/130/2509).)"
---
# § 382. Execution and administration of programs and activities

##### § 382. Execution and administration of programs and activities

(a) Policy Oversight and Resource Allocation.— The Secretary of Defense shall assign responsibility for the oversight of strategic policy and guidance and responsibility for overall resource allocation for security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense to a single official and office in the Office of the Secretary of Defense at the level of Under Secretary of Defense or below.

(b) Execution and Administration of Certain Programs and Activities.—

(1) In general.— The Director of the Defense Security Cooperation Agency shall be responsible for the execution and administration of all security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense involving the provision of defense articles, military training, and other defense-related services by grant, loan, cash sale, or lease.

(2) Designation of responsibility.— The Director may designate an element of an armed force, combatant command, Defense Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, or other element or organization of the Department of Defense to execute and administer security cooperation programs and activities described in paragraph (1) if the Director determines that the designation will achieve maximum effectiveness, efficiency, and economy in the activities for which designated.

(c) Availability of Funds.—

(1) In general.— Funds available to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, and other funds available to the Department of Defense for security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense, may be used to implement security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense authorized by this chapter.

(2) Budget justification.— Funds necessary for implementing security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense under this chapter for a fiscal year shall be identified, with appropriate justification, in the consolidated budget for such fiscal year required by [section 381 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s381).

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(m)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/m), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/130/2509).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 382 was renumbered [section 282 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s282).
