---
title: "§ 8115. Carbon utilization and biogas education program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S8115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section8115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–171, title IX, § 9014](/us/pl/107/171/tIX/s9014), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title IX, § 9011](/us/pl/115/334/tIX/s9011), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4887](/us/stat/132/4887).)"
---
# § 8115. Carbon utilization and biogas education program

##### § 8115. Carbon utilization and biogas education program

(a) Definitions In this section:

(1) Carbon dioxide The term “carbon dioxide” means carbon dioxide that is produced as a byproduct of the production of a biobased product.

(2) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means an entity that—

(A) is—

(i) an organization described in [section 501(c)(3) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of that title; or

(ii) an institution of higher education (as defined in [section 1001(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1001/a));

(B) has demonstrated knowledge about—

(i) sequestration and utilization of carbon dioxide; or

(ii) aggregation of organic waste from multiple sources into a single biogas system; and

(C) has a demonstrated ability to conduct educational and technical support programs.

(b) Establishment The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall make competitive grants to eligible entities—

(1) to provide education to the public about the economic and emissions benefits of permanent sequestration or utilization of carbon dioxide with a primary objective of providing benefits and opportunities for rural businesses, rural communities, and utilities serving rural communities; or

(2) to provide education to agricultural producers and other stakeholders about opportunities for aggregation of organic waste from multiple sources into a single biogas system.

(c) Funding There are authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023—

(1) $1,000,000 to carry out subsection (b)(1); and

(2) $1,000,000 to carry out subsection (b)(2).

*([Pub. L. 107–171, title IX, § 9014](/us/pl/107/171/tIX/s9014), as added [Pub. L. 115–334, title IX, § 9011](/us/pl/115/334/tIX/s9011), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4887](/us/stat/132/4887).)*
