---
title: "§ 7384t. Medical benefits"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7384t"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7384t"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3629]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3629), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–507.)"
---
# § 7384t. Medical benefits

##### § 7384t. Medical benefits

(a) Medical benefits provided The United States shall furnish, to an individual receiving medical benefits under this section for an illness, the services, appliances, and supplies prescribed or recommended by a qualified physician for that illness, which the President considers likely to cure, give relief, or reduce the degree or the period of that illness.

(b) Persons furnishing benefits

(1) These services, appliances, and supplies shall be furnished by or on the order of United States medical officers and hospitals, or, at the individual’s option, by or on the order of physicians and hospitals designated or approved by the President.

(2) The individual may initially select a physician to provide medical services, appliances, and supplies under this section in accordance with such regulations and instructions as the President considers necessary.

(c) Transportation and expenses The individual may be furnished necessary and reasonable transportation and expenses incident to the securing of such services, appliances, and supplies.

(d) Commencement of benefits An individual receiving benefits under this section shall be furnished those benefits as of the date on which that individual submitted the claim for those benefits in accordance with this subchapter.

(e) Payment from compensation fund The benefits provided under this section, when authorized or approved by the President, shall be paid from the compensation fund established under [section 7384e of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7384e).

(f) Effective date This section shall take effect on July 31, 2001, unless Congress otherwise provides in an Act enacted before that date.

*([Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [div. C, title XXXVI, § 3629]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dC/tXXXVI/s3629), Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–507.)*
