---
title: "§ 15973. Western integrated coal gasification demonstration project"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15973"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15973"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/109/58/tIV/s413), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 755](/us/stat/119/755).)"
---
# § 15973. Western integrated coal gasification demonstration project

##### § 15973. Western integrated coal gasification demonstration project

(a) In general Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall carry out a project to demonstrate production of energy from coal mined in the western United States using integrated gasification combined cycle technology (referred to in this section as the “demonstration project”).

(b) Components The demonstration project—

(1) may include repowering of existing facilities;

(2) shall be designed to demonstrate the ability to use coal with an energy content of not more than 9,000 Btu/lb.; and

(3) shall be capable of removing and sequestering carbon dioxide emissions.

(c) All types of western coals Notwithstanding the foregoing, and to the extent economically feasible, the demonstration project shall also be designed to demonstrate the ability to use a variety of types of coal (including subbituminous and bituminous coal with an energy content of up to 13,000 Btu/lb.) mined in the western United States.

(d) Location The demonstration project shall be located in a western State at an altitude of greater than 4,000 feet above sea level.

(e) Cost sharing The Federal share of the cost of the demonstration project shall be determined in accordance with [section 16352 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16352).

(f) Loan guarantees Notwithstanding subchapter XIII, the demonstration project shall not be eligible for Federal loan guarantees.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IV, § 413](/us/pl/109/58/tIV/s413), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 755](/us/stat/119/755).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapter XIII, referred to in subsec. (f), was in the original “title XIV”, meaning title XIV of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 1061](/us/stat/119/1061), which enacted subchapter XIII of this chapter and [section 13557 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s13557). For complete classification of title XIV to the Code, see Tables.
