---
title: "§ 10491. Duties"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10491"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10491"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2301), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210201(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210201/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2062](/us/stat/108/2062); amended [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(2)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/2), July 25, 2019, [133 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/133/1036).)"
---
# § 10491. Duties

##### § 10491. Duties

(1) establish guidelines and oversee the implementation of family-friendly policies within law enforcement-related offices and divisions in the Department of Justice;

(2) study the effects of stress on law enforcement personnel and family well-being and disseminate the findings of such studies to Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies, related organizations, and other interested parties, including any research and reports developed under the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 ([Public Law 115–113](/us/pl/115/113); [131 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/131/2276));

(3) identify and evaluate model programs that provide support services to law enforcement personnel and families;

(4) provide technical assistance and training programs to develop stress reduction, psychological services, suicide prevention, and family support to State and local law enforcement agencies;

(5) collect and disseminate information regarding family support, stress reduction, and psychological services to Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies, law enforcement-related organizations, and other interested entities; and

(6) determine issues to be researched by the Department of Justice and by grant recipients.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2301](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2301), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXI, § 210201(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXI/s210201/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2062](/us/stat/108/2062); amended [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(2)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/2), July 25, 2019, [133 Stat. 1036](/us/stat/133/1036).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017, referred to in par. (2), is [Pub. L. 115–113](/us/pl/115/113), Jan. 10, 2018, [131 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/131/2276), which amended [section 10381 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10381) and enacted provisions set out as notes preceding [section 50101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s50101). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1 of Pub. L. 115–113](/us/pl/115/113/s1), set out as a Short Title of 2018 Amendment note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796jj of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796jj), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 2301 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s2301) was renumbered section 2601 and is classified to [section 10541 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10541).

#### Amendments

2019—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/2/A), inserted “, including any research and reports developed under the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 ([Public Law 115–113](/us/pl/115/113); [131 Stat. 2276](/us/stat/131/2276))” after “interested parties”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 116–32, § 2(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/32/s2/2/B), inserted “, psychological services, suicide prevention,” after “stress reduction”.
