---
title: "§ 3901. Findings and purposes"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–399, § 2](/us/pl/103/399/s2), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4164](/us/stat/108/4164).)"
---
# § 3901. Findings and purposes

##### § 3901. Findings and purposes

(a) Findings The Congress finds that—

(1) there are at least 600 open dumps on Indian and Alaska Native lands;

(2) these dumps threaten the health and safety of residents of Indian and Alaska Native lands and contiguous areas;

(3) many of these dumps were established or are used by Federal agencies such as the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service;

(4) these dumps threaten the environment;

(5) the United States holds most Indian lands in trust for the benefit of Indian tribes and Indian individuals; and

(6) most Indian tribal governments and Alaska Native entities lack the financial and technical resources necessary to close and maintain these dumps in compliance with applicable Federal laws.

(b) Purposes The purposes of this chapter are to—

(1) identify the location of open dumps on Indian lands and Alaska Native lands;

(2) assess the relative health and environmental hazards posed by such dumps; and

(3) provide financial and technical assistance to Indian tribal governments and Alaska Native entities, either directly or by contract, to close such dumps in compliance with applicable Federal standards and regulations, or standards promulgated by an Indian tribal government or Alaska Native entity, if such standards are more stringent than the Federal standards.

*([Pub. L. 103–399, § 2](/us/pl/103/399/s2), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4164](/us/stat/108/4164).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 103–399, § 1](/us/pl/103/399/s1), Oct. 22, 1994, [108 Stat. 4164](/us/stat/108/4164), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Indian Lands Open Dump Cleanup Act of 1994’.”
