---
title: "§ 1496. Powers of Secretary; finality of financial transactions and property acquisitions, management, and dispositions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1496"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1496"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–262, title II, § 216](/us/pl/93/262/tII/s216), Apr. 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 81](/us/stat/88/81); [Pub. L. 100–442, § 5(c)](/us/pl/100/442/s5/c), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/102/1764).)"
---
# § 1496. Powers of Secretary; finality of financial transactions and property acquisitions, management, and dispositions

##### § 1496. Powers of Secretary; finality of financial transactions and property acquisitions, management, and dispositions

(a) sue and be sued in his official capacity in any court of competent jurisdiction;

(b) subject to the specific limitations in this subchapter, consent to the modification, with respect to the rate of interest, time of payment on principal or interest or any portion thereof, security, or any other provisions of any note, contract, mortgage, or other instrument securing a loan or surety bond which has been guaranteed or insured hereunder;

(c) subject to the specific limitations in this subchapter, pay, or compromise, any claim on, or arising because of any loan or surety bond guaranty or insurance;

(d) subject to the specific limitations in this subchapter, pay, compromise, waive, or release any right, title, claim, lien, or demand, however acquired, including, but not limited to, any equity or right of redemption;

(e) purchase at any sale, public or private, upon such terms and for such prices as he determines to be reasonable, and take title to property, real, personal, or mixed; and similarly sell, at public or private sale, exchange, assign, convey, or otherwise dispose of such property; and

(f) complete, administer, operate, obtain, and pay for insurance on, and maintain, renovate, repair, modernize, lease, or otherwise deal with any property acquired or held pursuant to the guaranty or insurance program authorized by this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 93–262, title II, § 216](/us/pl/93/262/tII/s216), Apr. 12, 1974, [88 Stat. 81](/us/stat/88/81); [Pub. L. 100–442, § 5(c)](/us/pl/100/442/s5/c), Sept. 22, 1988, [102 Stat. 1764](/us/stat/102/1764).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1988—[Pub. L. 100–442](/us/pl/100/442) inserted “and surety bonds” after “of loans” in introductory text, “or surety” after “a loan” in par. (b), and “or surety” after “any loan” in par. (c).
