---
title: "§ 10410. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10410"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10410"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1809](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1809), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1867](/us/stat/116/1867).)"
---
# § 10410. Definitions

##### § 10410. Definitions

(1) Unit of local government The term “unit of local government” means—

(A) a county, township, city, or political subdivision of a county, township, or city, that is a unit of local government as determined by the Secretary of Commerce for general statistical purposes;

(B) any law enforcement district or judicial enforcement district that—

(i) is established under applicable State law; and

(ii) has the authority, in a manner independent of other State entities, to establish a budget and raise revenues; and

(C) the District of Columbia and the recognized governing body of an Indian tribe or Alaskan Native village that carries out substantial governmental duties and powers.

(2) Specially qualified unit The term “specially qualified unit” means a unit of local government which may receive funds under this subchapter only in accordance with [section 10404(e) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10404/e).

(3) State The term “State” means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands, except that—

(A) the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands (the “partial States”) shall collectively be considered as 1 State; and

(B) for purposes of [section 10404(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10404/a), the amount allocated to a partial State shall bear the same proportion to the amount collectively allocated to the partial States as the population of the partial State bears to the collective population of the partial States.

(4) Juvenile The term “juvenile” means an individual who is 17 years of age or younger.

(5) Juvenile justice expenditures The term “juvenile justice expenditures” means expenditures in connection with the juvenile justice system, including expenditures in connection with such system to carry out—

(A) activities specified in [section 10401(b) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10401/b); and

(B) other activities associated with prosecutorial and judicial services and corrections as reported to the Bureau of the Census for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which a determination is made under this subchapter.

(6) Part 1 violent crimes The term “part 1 violent crimes” means murder and nonnegligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault as reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for purposes of the Uniform Crime Reports.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1809](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1809), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a)](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12102/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1867](/us/stat/116/1867).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796ee–9 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796ee–9), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
