---
title: "§ 3807. General enforcement provisions"
identifier: "USC-T7-S3807"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section3807"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–468, § 8](/us/pl/96/468/s8), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/94/2232).)"
---
# § 3807. General enforcement provisions

##### § 3807. General enforcement provisions

(a) Injunctions The Attorney General, upon the request of the Secretary, shall bring an action to enjoin the violation of, or to compel compliance with, any provision of this chapter or any regulation issued by the Secretary hereunder by any person. Such action shall be brought in the appropriate United States district court for the judicial district in which such person resides or transacts business or in which the violation or omission has occurred or is about to occur. Process in such cases may be served in any judicial district wherein the defendant resides or transacts business or wherever the defendant may be found.

(b) Access to premises or facility and books and records; examination; samples Any person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall, at all reasonable times, upon notice by a duly authorized representative of the Secretary, afford such representative access to his premises or facility and opportunity to examine the premises or facility, the garbage there at, and books and records thereof, to copy all such books and records and to take reasonable samples of such garbage.

(c) Additional powers For the efficient execution of the provisions of this chapter, and in order to provide information for the use of Congress, the provisions (including penalties) of sections 46 and 48 through 50 of title 15, are made applicable to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary in enforcing the provisions of this chapter and to any person subject to the provisions of this chapter, whether or not a corporation. The Secretary, in person or by such agents as he may designate, may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his duties under this chapter in any part of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 96–468, § 8](/us/pl/96/468/s8), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2232](/us/stat/94/2232).)*
