---
title: "§ 804. Project works affecting navigable waters; requirements insertable in license"
identifier: "USC-T16-S804"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section804"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 10, 1920, ch. 285](/us/act/1920-06-10/ch285), pt. I, § 11, [41 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/41/1070); renumbered pt. I, [Aug. 26, 1935, ch. 687](/us/act/1935-08-26/ch687), title II, § 212, [49 Stat. 847](/us/stat/49/847); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 804. Project works affecting navigable waters; requirements insertable in license

##### § 804. Project works affecting navigable waters; requirements insertable in license

(a) That such licensee shall, to the extent necessary to preserve and improve navigation facilities, construct, in whole or in part, without expense to the United States, in connection with such dam, a lock or locks, booms, sluices, or other structures for navigation purposes, in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of the Army and made part of such license.

(b) That in case such structures for navigation purposes are not made a part of the original construction at the expense of the licensee, then whenever the United States shall desire to complete such navigation facilities the licensee shall convey to the United States, free of cost, such of its land and its rights-of-way and such right of passage through its dams or other structures, and permit such control of pools as may be required to complete such navigation facilities.

(c) That such licensee shall furnish free of cost to the United States power for the operation of such navigation facilities, whether constructed by the licensee or by the United States.

*([June 10, 1920, ch. 285](/us/act/1920-06-10/ch285), pt. I, § 11, [41 Stat. 1070](/us/stat/41/1070); renumbered pt. I, [Aug. 26, 1935, ch. 687](/us/act/1935-08-26/ch687), title II, § 212, [49 Stat. 847](/us/stat/49/847); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
