---
title: "§ 2515. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2515"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2515"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3116](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3116), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/127/1058).)"
---
# § 2515. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing

##### § 2515. Establishment of Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing

(a) Establishment The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish within the nuclear security enterprise (as defined in [section 2501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s2501)) a Center for Security Technology, Analysis, Response, and Testing.

(b) Duties The center established under subsection (a) shall carry out the following:

(1) Provide to the Administrator, the Chief of Defense Nuclear Security, and the management and operating contractors of the nuclear security enterprise a wide range of objective expertise on security technologies, systems, analysis, testing, and response forces.

(2) Assist the Administrator in developing standards, requirements, analysis methods, and testing criteria with respect to security.

(3) Collect, analyze, and distribute lessons learned with respect to security.

(4) Support inspections and oversight activities with respect to security.

(5) Promote professional development and training for security professionals.

(6) Provide for advance and bulk procurement for security-related acquisitions that affect multiple facilities of the nuclear security enterprise.

(7) Advocate for continual improvement and security excellence throughout the nuclear security enterprise.

(8) Such other duties as the Administrator may assign.

*([Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3116](/us/pl/113/66/dC/tXXXI/s3116), Dec. 26, 2013, [127 Stat. 1058](/us/stat/127/1058).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Defense Act which comprises this chapter.
