---
title: "§ 171. Declaration of purpose and policy"
identifier: "USC-T29-S171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([June 23, 1947, ch. 120](/us/act/1947-06-23/ch120), title II, § 201, [61 Stat. 152](/us/stat/61/152).)"
---
# § 171. Declaration of purpose and policy

##### § 171. Declaration of purpose and policy

(a) sound and stable industrial peace and the advancement of the general welfare, health, and safety of the Nation and of the best interests of employers and employees can most satisfactorily be secured by the settlement of issues between employers and employees through the processes of conference and collective bargaining between employers and the representatives of their employees;

(b) the settlement of issues between employers and employees through collective bargaining may be advanced by making available full and adequate governmental facilities for conciliation, mediation, and voluntary arbitration to aid and encourage employers and the representatives of their employees to reach and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, hours, and working conditions, and to make all reasonable efforts to settle their differences by mutual agreement reached through conferences and collective bargaining or by such methods as may be provided for in any applicable agreement for the settlement of disputes; and

(c) certain controversies which arise between parties to collective-bargaining agreements may be avoided or minimized by making available full and adequate governmental facilities for furnishing assistance to employers and the representatives of their employees in formulating for inclusion within such agreements provision for adequate notice of any proposed changes in the terms of such agreements, for the final adjustment of grievances or questions regarding the application or interpretation of such agreements, and other provisions designed to prevent the subsequent arising of such controversies.

*([June 23, 1947, ch. 120](/us/act/1947-06-23/ch120), title II, § 201, [61 Stat. 152](/us/stat/61/152).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 11482

Ex. Ord. No. 11482, Sept. 22, 1969, 34 F.R. 14723, which related to the Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12110, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1069, formerly set out as a note under [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.

#### Executive Order No. 11849

Ex. Ord. No. 11849, Apr. 1, 1975, 40 F.R. 14887, which related to the Collective Bargaining Committee in Construction, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12110, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1069, formerly set out as a note under [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
