---
title: "§ 501. General penalty"
identifier: "USC-T47-S501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title V, § 501, [48 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/48/1100); [Mar. 23, 1954, ch. 104](/us/act/1954-03-23/ch104), [68 Stat. 30](/us/stat/68/30).)"
---
# § 501. General penalty

##### § 501. General penalty

Any person who willfully and knowingly does or causes or suffers to be done any act, matter, or thing, in this chapter prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or who willfully and knowingly omits or fails to do any act, matter, or thing in this chapter required to be done, or willfully and knowingly causes or suffers such omission or failure, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for such offense, for which no penalty (other than a forfeiture) is provided in this chapter, by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or both; except that any person, having been once convicted of an offense punishable under this section, who is subsequently convicted of violating any provision of this chapter punishable under this section, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or both.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title V, § 501, [48 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/48/1100); [Mar. 23, 1954, ch. 104](/us/act/1954-03-23/ch104), [68 Stat. 30](/us/stat/68/30).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1954—Act Mar. 23, 1954, provided that any offense punishable hereunder, except a second or subsequent offense, should constitute a misdemeanor rather than a felony, as those terms are defined in [section 1 of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1), Crimes and Criminal Procedure.
