---
title: "§ 1543a. Report on hostilities involving United States Armed Forces"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1543a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1543a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XII, § 1230](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXII/s1230), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 457](/us/stat/137/457).)"
---
# § 1543a. Report on hostilities involving United States Armed Forces

##### § 1543a. Report on hostilities involving United States Armed Forces

(a) In general Not later than 48 hours after any incident in which the United States Armed Forces are involved in an attack or hostilities, whether in an offensive or defensive capacity, the President shall transmit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the incident, unless the President—

(1) otherwise reports the incident within 48 hours pursuant to [section 1543 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1543); or

(2) has determined prior to the incident, and so reported pursuant to [section 1549 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1549), that the United States Armed Forces involved in the incident would be operating under specific statutory authorization within the meaning of [section 1544(b) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1544/b).

(b) Matters to be included Each report required by subsection (a) shall include—

(1) the authority or authorities under which the United States Armed Forces were operating when the incident occurred;

(2) the date, location, and duration of the incident and the other parties involved;

(3) a description of the United States Armed Forces involved in the incident and the mission of such Armed Forces;

(4) the numbers of any combatant casualties and civilian casualties that occurred as a result of the incident; and

(5) any other information the President determines appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XII, § 1230](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXII/s1230), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 457](/us/stat/137/457).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, and not as part of the War Powers Resolution which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Congressional Defense Committees” Defined

Congressional defense committees means the Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31/s3), [137 Stat. 164](/us/stat/137/164). See note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
