---
title: "§ 3510. Rights of victims to attend and observe trial"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3510"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3510"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 105–6, § 2(a)](/us/pl/105/6/s2/a), Mar. 19, 1997, [111 Stat. 12](/us/stat/111/12).)"
---
# § 3510. Rights of victims to attend and observe trial

##### § 3510. Rights of victims to attend and observe trial

(a) Non-Capital Cases.— Notwithstanding any statute, rule, or other provision of law, a United States district court shall not order any victim of an offense excluded from the trial of a defendant accused of that offense because such victim may, during the sentencing hearing, make a statement or present any information in relation to the sentence.

(b) Capital Cases.— Notwithstanding any statute, rule, or other provision of law, a United States district court shall not order any victim of an offense excluded from the trial of a defendant accused of that offense because such victim may, during the sentencing hearing, testify as to the effect of the offense on the victim and the victim’s family or as to any other factor for which notice is required under section 3593(a).

(c) Definition.— As used in this section, the term “victim” includes all persons defined as victims in section 503(e)(2) of the Victims’ Rights and Restitution Act of 1990.

*(Added [Pub. L. 105–6, § 2(a)](/us/pl/105/6/s2/a), Mar. 19, 1997, [111 Stat. 12](/us/stat/111/12).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 503(e)(2) of the Victims’ Rights and Restitution Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (c), is classified to [section 20141(e)(2) of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s20141/e/2), Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 105–6, § 2(d)](/us/pl/105/6/s2/d), Mar. 19, 1997, [111 Stat. 13](/us/stat/111/13), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending [section 3593 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s3593)] shall apply in cases pending on the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 19, 1997].”
