---
title: "§ 10607. Prohibition of support for certain governments"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10607"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10607"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5107](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5107), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/138/2421).)"
---
# § 10607. Prohibition of support for certain governments

##### § 10607. Prohibition of support for certain governments

(a) In general The Foundation may not provide support for any government, or any entity owned or controlled by a government, if the Secretary has determined that such government—

(1) has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism, as determined under—

(A) [section 4813(c)(1)(A)(i) of title 50](/us/usc/t50/s4813/c/1/A/i);

(B) [section 2371(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2371/a);

(C) [section 2780(d) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2780/d); or

(D) any other relevant provision of law;

(2) has been identified pursuant to section 2151n(a) or 2304(a)(2) of this title or any other relevant provision of law; or

(3) has failed the “control of corruption” indicator, as determined by the Millennium Challenge Corporation, within any of the preceding 3 years of the intended grant.

(b) Prohibition of support for sanctioned persons The Foundation may not engage in any dealing prohibited under United States sanctions laws or regulations, including dealings with persons on the list of specially designated persons and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury, except to the extent otherwise authorized by the Secretary or by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(c) Prohibition of support for activities subject to sanctions The Foundation shall require any person receiving support to certify that such person, and any entity owned or controlled by such person, is in compliance with all United States sanctions laws and regulations.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5107](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5107), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2421](/us/stat/138/2421).)*
