---
title: "§ 7305. Additional powers"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7305"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7305"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–231, § 6](/us/pl/107/231/s6), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1474](/us/stat/116/1474).)"
---
# § 7305. Additional powers

##### § 7305. Additional powers

(1) procure the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants under [section 3109 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s3109);

(2) request the use, when appropriate, of available services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government on a reimbursable or other basis;

(3) confer with employees and request the use of services, records, and facilities of State and local governmental authorities;

(4) accept voluntary and uncompensated services;

(5) accept and use gifts of money and other property, to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts;

(6) make contracts with nonprofit entities to carry out studies related to purpose, functions, and authorities of the Teams; and

(7) provide nongovernmental members of the Team reasonable compensation for time spent carrying out activities under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 107–231, § 6](/us/pl/107/231/s6), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1474](/us/stat/116/1474).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–231](/us/pl/107/231), Oct. 1, 2002, [116 Stat. 1471](/us/stat/116/1471), known as the National Construction Safety Team Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7301 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7301) and Tables.
