---
title: "§ 10601. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S10601"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section10601"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5101](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5101), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2410](/us/stat/138/2410).)"
---
# § 10601. Definitions

##### § 10601. Definitions

(1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(2) The term “Board” means the Board of Directors established pursuant to [section 10603(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10603/b).

(3) The term “eligible country” means any country described in [section 10606(b) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10606/b).

(4) The term “eligible project” means any project described in [section 10606(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10606/a/3).

(5) The term “Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Foundation hired pursuant to [section 10603 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10603).

(6) The term “Foundation” means the United States Foundation for International Conservation established pursuant to [section 10602(a) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s10602/a).

(7) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of State.

*([Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI, § 5101](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI/s5101), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2410](/us/stat/138/2410).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original “this title” and was translated as reading “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 5101–5109) of title LI of div. E of [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2410](/us/stat/138/2410), known as the United States Foundation for International Conservation Act of 2024, which is classified generally to this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 118–159, div. E, title LI](/us/pl/118/159/dE/tLI), subtitle A, Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2410](/us/stat/138/2410), which enacted this chapter, is popularly known as the United States Foundation for International Conservation Act of 2024.
