---
title: "§ 124. Transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital to Howard University"
identifier: "USC-T20-S124"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section124"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–262, § 1](/us/pl/87/262/s1), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 542](/us/stat/75/542).)"
---
# § 124. Transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital to Howard University

##### § 124. Transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital to Howard University

(a) Purpose; authorization; agreement For the purpose of assisting in the provision of teaching hospital resources for Howard University, thereby assisting the university in the training of medical and allied personnel and in providing hospital services for the community, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall, pursuant to agreement with the board of trustees of Howard University, transfer to Howard University, without reimbursement, all right, title, and interest of the United States in certain lands in the District of Columbia, together with the buildings and improvements thereon and the personal property used in connection therewith (as determined by the Secretary), commonly known as Freedmen’s Hospital.

(b) Congressional intent It is the intent of Congress (1) that the transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital to Howard University be effected as soon as practicable, (2) to assure the well-being of patients at Freedmen’s Hospital during the period of transition, and (3) that the transfer be effected with minimum dislocation of the present hospital staff and maximum consideration of their interests as employees.

(c) Report to Congress The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall report to the Congress the terms of the agreement for such transfer.

*([Pub. L. 87–262, § 1](/us/pl/87/262/s1), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 542](/us/stat/75/542).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under laws relating to relationship between Howard University and Department of Health, Education, and Welfare transferred to Secretary of Education by [section 3441(a)(2)(M) of this title](/us/usc/t20/s3441/a/2/M).

#### Repeal of Laws Applicable to Freedmen’s Hospital

[Pub. L. 87–262, § 7](/us/pl/87/262/s7), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 544](/us/stat/75/544), provided that: “All laws heretofore applicable specifically to Freedmen’s Hospital are, to the extent of such applicability, repealed, effective with the transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital pursuant to section 1 [this section].”

#### Transfer of Funds

[Pub. L. 87–262, § 8](/us/pl/87/262/s8), Sept. 21, 1961, [75 Stat. 544](/us/stat/75/544), provided that: “All unexpended balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds, available or to be made available, of Freedmen’s Hospital are, effective with the transfer of Freedmen’s Hospital pursuant to section 1 [this section], transferred to Howard University for use in the operation of the Howard University Hospital facilities, except to the extent (determined by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget [Director of the Office of Management and Budget]) required to meet obligations already incurred and not assumed by the university.”
