---
title: "§ 14953. Relationship to other laws"
identifier: "USC-T42-S14953"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section14953"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–279, title V, § 503](/us/pl/106/279/tV/s503), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 843](/us/stat/114/843).)"
---
# § 14953. Relationship to other laws

##### § 14953. Relationship to other laws

(a) Preemption of inconsistent State law The Convention and this chapter shall not be construed to preempt any provision of the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, or prevent a State or political subdivision thereof from enacting any provision of law with respect to the subject matter of the Convention or this chapter, except to the extent that such provision of State law is inconsistent with the Convention or this chapter, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.

(b) Applicability of the Indian Child Welfare Act The Convention and this chapter shall not be construed to affect the application of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 ([25 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t25/s1901) et seq.).

(c) Relationship to other laws Sections 3506(c), 3507, and 3512 of title 44 shall not apply to information collection for purposes of sections 14914, 14922(b)(4), and 14932(d) of this title or for use as a Convention record as defined in this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 106–279, title V, § 503](/us/pl/106/279/tV/s503), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 843](/us/stat/114/843).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 825](/us/stat/114/825), known as the Intercountry Adoption Act of 2000, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901) and Tables.

The Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (b), is [Pub. L. 95–608](/us/pl/95/608), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3069](/us/stat/92/3069), which is classified principally to chapter 21 (§ 1901 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1901 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1901) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 6, 2000, with transition rule, see section 505(a)(1), (b) of [Pub. L. 106–279](/us/pl/106/279), set out as an Effective Dates; Transition Rule note under [section 14901 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s14901).
