---
title: "§ 561. Scrambling of sexually explicit adult video service programming"
identifier: "USC-T47-S561"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section561"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 641, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title V, § 505(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tV/s505/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 136](/us/stat/110/136).)"
---
# § 561. Scrambling of sexually explicit adult video service programming

##### § 561. Scrambling of sexually explicit adult video service programming

(a) Requirement In providing sexually explicit adult programming or other programming that is indecent on any channel of its service primarily dedicated to sexually-oriented programming, a multichannel video programming distributor shall fully scramble or otherwise fully block the video and audio portion of such channel so that one not a subscriber to such channel or programming does not receive it.

(b) Implementation Until a multichannel video programming distributor complies with the requirement set forth in subsection (a), the distributor shall limit the access of children to the programming referred to in that subsection by not providing such programming during the hours of the day (as determined by the Commission) when a significant number of children are likely to view it.

(c) “Scramble” defined As used in this section, the term “scramble” means to rearrange the content of the signal of the programming so that the programming cannot be viewed or heard in an understandable manner.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VI, § 641, as added [Pub. L. 104–104, title V, § 505(a)](/us/pl/104/104/tV/s505/a), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 136](/us/stat/110/136).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Constitutionality

For information regarding the constitutionality of this section, see the Table of Laws Held Unconstitutional in Whole or in Part by the Supreme Court on the Constitution Annotated website, constitution.congress.gov.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 104–104, title V, § 505(b)](/us/pl/104/104/tV/s505/b), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 136](/us/stat/110/136), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 8, 1996].”
