---
title: "§ 17143. Government efficiency status reports"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 527](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s527), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/121/1663).)"
---
# § 17143. Government efficiency status reports

##### § 17143. Government efficiency status reports

(a) In general Each Federal agency subject to any of the requirements of this title 11 See References in Text note below. or the amendments made by this title 1 shall compile and submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget an annual Government efficiency status report on—

(1) compliance by the agency with each of the requirements of this title ^1 and the amendments made by this title; ^1

(2) the status of the implementation by the agency of initiatives to improve energy efficiency, reduce energy costs, and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases; and

(3) savings to the taxpayers of the United States resulting from mandated improvements under this title ^1 and the amendments made by this title.^1

(b) Submission The report shall be submitted—

(1) to the Director at such time as the Director requires;

(2) in electronic, not paper, format; and

(3) consistent with related reporting requirements.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title V, § 527](/us/pl/110/140/tV/s527), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1663](/us/stat/121/1663).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in subsec. (a), is title V of [Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140), which enacted this subchapter, part D (§ 8279) of subchapter III of chapter 91 of this title, and sections 1824, 2162a, and 2169 of Title 2, The Congress, amended sections 6325, 6834, 8256, 8258, 8259b, 8287, and 8287c of this title, [section 2162 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s2162), [section 2913 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s2913), Armed Forces, [section 3203 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s3203), Commerce and Trade, and [section 2621 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s2621), Conservation, and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 8259b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s8259b). For complete classification of title V to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
