---
title: "§ 641. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S641"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section641"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 801, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 228](/us/stat/134/228).)"
---
# § 641. Definitions

##### § 641. Definitions

(1) Broadband internet access service The term “broadband internet access service” has the meaning given the term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.

(2) Broadband map The term “Broadband Map” means the map created by the Commission under [section 642(c)(1)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/c/1/A).

(3) Cell edge probability The term “cell edge probability” means the likelihood that the minimum threshold download and upload speeds with respect to broadband internet access service will be met or exceeded at a distance from a base station that is intended to indicate the ultimate edge of the coverage area of a cell.

(4) Cell loading The term “cell loading” means the percentage of the available air interface resources of a base station that are used by consumers with respect to broadband internet access service.

(5) Clutter The term “clutter” means a natural or man-made surface feature that affects the propagation of a signal from a base station.

(6) Fabric The term “Fabric” means the Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric established under [section 642(b)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642/b/1/B).

(7) Form 477 The term “Form 477” means Form 477 of the Commission relating to local telephone competition and broadband reporting.

(8) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(9) Mobility Fund Phase II The term “Mobility Fund Phase II” means the second phase of the proceeding to provide universal service support from the Mobility Fund (WC Docket No. 10–90; WT Docket No. 10–208).

(10) Propagation model The term “propagation model” means a mathematical formulation for the characterization of radio wave propagation as a function of frequency, distance, and other conditions.

(11) Provider The term “provider” means a provider of fixed or mobile broadband internet access service.

(12) Quality of service The term “quality of service” means, with respect to broadband internet access service, the download and upload speeds (and, for relevant services, latency) with respect to that service, as determined by, and to the extent otherwise collected by, the Commission.

(13) Shapefile The term “shapefile” means a digital storage format containing geospatial or location-based data and attribute information—

(A) regarding the availability of broadband internet access service; and

(B) that can be viewed, edited, and mapped in geographic information system software.

(14) Standard broadband installation The term “standard broadband installation”—

(A) means the initiation by a provider of fixed broadband internet access service in an area in which the provider has not previously offered that service, with no charges or delays attributable to the extension of the network of the provider; and

(B) includes the initiation of fixed broadband internet access service through routine installation that can be completed not later than 10 business days after the date on which the service request is submitted.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title VIII, § 801, as added [Pub. L. 116–130, § 2](/us/pl/116/130/s2), Mar. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 228](/us/stat/134/228).)*
