---
title: "§ 20925. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T52-S20925"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section20925"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 205](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s205), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/116/1677).)"
---
# § 20925. Powers

##### § 20925. Powers

(a) Hearings and sessions The Commission may hold such hearings for the purpose of carrying out this chapter, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out this chapter. The Commission may administer oaths and affirmations to witnesses appearing before the Commission.

(b) Information from Federal agencies The Commission may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out this chapter. Upon request of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.

(c) Postal services The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

(d) Administrative support services Upon the request of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services that are necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its duties under this chapter.

(e) Contracts The Commission may contract with and compensate persons and Federal agencies for supplies and services without regard to [section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101).

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 205](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s205), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1677](/us/stat/116/1677).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), and (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–252](/us/pl/107/252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/116/1666), known as the Help America Vote Act of 2002, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15325 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15325), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

In subsec. (e), “[section 6101 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s6101)” substituted for “section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ([41 U.S.C. 5](/us/usc/t41/s5))” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.
