---
title: "§ 2401. Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 93–43, § 2(a)](/us/pl/93/43/s2/a), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 75](/us/stat/87/75), § 1001; amended [Pub. L. 99–576, title VII, § 701(53)](/us/pl/99/576/tVII/s701/53), Oct. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 3295](/us/stat/100/3295); [Pub. L. 101–237, title III, § 313(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/237/tIII/s313/b/1), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2077](/us/stat/103/2077); renumbered § 2401, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 2401. Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials

##### § 2401. Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials

There shall be appointed by the Secretary an Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials. The Secretary shall advise and consult with the Committee from time to time with respect to the administration of the cemeteries for which the Secretary is responsible, and with respect to the selection of cemetery sites, the erection of appropriate memorials, and the adequacy of Federal burial benefits. The Committee shall make periodic reports and recommendations to the Secretary and to Congress.

*(Added [Pub. L. 93–43, § 2(a)](/us/pl/93/43/s2/a), June 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 75](/us/stat/87/75), § 1001; amended [Pub. L. 99–576, title VII, § 701(53)](/us/pl/99/576/tVII/s701/53), Oct. 28, 1986, [100 Stat. 3295](/us/stat/100/3295); [Pub. L. 101–237, title III, § 313(b)(1)](/us/pl/101/237/tIII/s313/b/1), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2077](/us/stat/103/2077); renumbered § 2401, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1001 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1001) as this section.

1989—[Pub. L. 101–237](/us/pl/101/237) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

1986—[Pub. L. 99–576](/us/pl/99/576) substituted “the Administrator” for “he” before “is responsible”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a periodic report to Congress on the Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials is listed on page 145), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.

#### Termination of Advisory Committees

Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
