---
title: "§ 423a–1. Addition of lands"
identifier: "USC-T16-S423a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section423a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Sept. 7, 1949, ch. 543, § 1](/us/act/1949-09-07/ch543/s1), [63 Stat. 691](/us/stat/63/691); [Pub. L. 87–603, § 1](/us/pl/87/603/s1), Aug. 24, 1962, [76 Stat. 403](/us/stat/76/403).)"
---
# § 423a–1. Addition of lands

##### § 423a–1. Addition of lands

The Department of the Army is authorized and directed to transfer to the Department of the Interior, without reimbursement, two tracts of land, comprising two hundred six acres, more or less, situated on either side of Siege Road adjacent to Petersburg National Battlefield, Virginia. Upon completion of such transfer, all lands, interest in lands, and other property in Federal ownership and under the administration of the National Park Service as a part of or in conjunction with Petersburg National Battlefield, in and about the city of Petersburg, Virginia, and comprising one thousand five hundred thirty-one acres, more or less, upon publication of the description thereof in the Federal Register by the Secretary of the Interior, shall constitute the Petersburg National Battlefield.

*([Sept. 7, 1949, ch. 543, § 1](/us/act/1949-09-07/ch543/s1), [63 Stat. 691](/us/stat/63/691); [Pub. L. 87–603, § 1](/us/pl/87/603/s1), Aug. 24, 1962, [76 Stat. 403](/us/stat/76/403).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Petersburg National Battlefield” substituted in text for “Petersburg National Military Park” pursuant to [Pub. L. 87–603](/us/pl/87/603). See [section 423h–1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s423h–1).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
