---
title: "§ 2307. Trust fund account; disbursements; sales of publications and releases"
identifier: "USC-T44-S2307"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section2307"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1293](/us/stat/82/1293); [Pub. L. 98–497, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/98/497/tII/s202/b), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/98/2294).)"
---
# § 2307. Trust fund account; disbursements; sales of publications and releases

##### § 2307. Trust fund account; disbursements; sales of publications and releases

The income from trust funds held by the Board and the proceeds from the sale of securities and other personal property, as and when collected, shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States in a trust fund account to be known as the National Archives Trust Fund, subject to disbursement on the basis of certified vouchers of the Archivist of the United States (or his designee) for activities approved by the Board and in the interest of the national archival and records activities administered by the National Archives and Records Administration, including but not restricted to the preparation and publication of special works, and collections of sources and the preparation, duplication, editing, and release of historical photographic materials and sound recordings. The Archivist may sell publications and releases authorized by this section and paid for out of the income derived from trust funds at a price which will cover their cost, plus 10 percent, and moneys received from these sales shall be paid into, administered, and expended as part of the National Archives Trust Fund.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1293](/us/stat/82/1293); [Pub. L. 98–497, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/98/497/tII/s202/b), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/98/2294).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 300ee ([July 9, 1941, ch. 284, § 5](/us/act/1941-07-09/ch284/s5), [55 Stat. 581](/us/stat/55/581)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497) substituted “on the basis of certified vouchers of the Archivist of the United States (or his designee) for activities approved by the Board and in the interest of the national archival and records activities administered by the National Archives and Records Administration” for “by the Division of Disbursement, Treasury Department, on the basis of certified vouchers of the Chairman or his authorized agent, unless otherwise restricted by the instrument of gift or bequest, for and in the interest of the national archival and records activities administered by the General Services Administration” and “Archivist” for “Chairman” in second sentence.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497) effective Apr. 1, 1985, see [section 301 of Pub. L. 98–497](/us/pl/98/497/s301), set out as a note under [section 2102 of this title](/us/usc/t44/s2102).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Division of Disbursement of Treasury Department consolidated into Fiscal Service of Treasury Department by section 1(a)(1) of Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2107, [54 Stat. 1231](/us/stat/54/1231), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. See [section 306 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s306), Money and Finance.
