---
title: "§ 911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident"
identifier: "USC-T10-S911"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section911"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5423](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5423), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2947](/us/stat/130/2947).)"
---
# § 911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident

##### § 911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident

(a) Driver.— Any person subject to this chapter—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) who is the driver of a vehicle that is involved in an accident that results in personal injury or property damage; and

(2) who wrongfully leaves the scene of the accident—

(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or

(B) without providing personal identification to others involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;

(b) Senior Passenger.— Any person subject to this chapter—

shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

(1) who is a passenger in a vehicle that is involved in an accident that results in personal injury or property damage;

(2) who is the superior commissioned or noncommissioned officer of the driver of the vehicle or is the commander of the vehicle; and

(3) who wrongfully and unlawfully orders, causes, or permits the driver to leave the scene of the accident—

(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or

(B) without providing personal identification to others involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LX, § 5423](/us/pl/114/328/dE/tLX/s5423), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2947](/us/stat/130/2947).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 911 was renumbered [section 913 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s913).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see [section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328/s5542) and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s801).
