---
title: "§ 3640. Administrative matters"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3640"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3640"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–5, § 11](/us/pl/99/5/s11), Mar. 15, 1985, [99 Stat. 14](/us/stat/99/14).)"
---
# § 3640. Administrative matters

##### § 3640. Administrative matters

(a) Compensation of Commissioners and Alternate Commissioners Commissioners and Alternate Commissioners who are not State or Federal employees shall receive compensation at the daily rate of GS–18 of the General Schedule when engaged in the actual performance of duties for the United States Section or for the Commission.

(b) Compensation of Panel Members and Alternate Panel Members Panel Members and Alternate Panel Members who are not State or Federal employees shall receive compensation at the daily rate of GS–16 of the General Schedule when engaged in the actual performance of duties for the United States Section or for the Commission.

(c) Travel; other expenses Travel and other necessary expenses shall be paid for all United States Commissioners, Alternate Commissioners, Panel Members, Alternate Panel Members, members of the Joint Technical Committee, and members of the Advisory Committee when engaged in the actual performance of duties for the United States Section or for the Commission.

(d) Individuals not considered Federal employees Except for officials of the United States Government, such individuals shall not be considered to be Federal employees while engaged in the actual performance of duties for the United States Section or for the Commission, except for the purposes of injury compensation or tort claims liability as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and chapter 71 11 So in original. Probably should be chapter “171”. of title 28.

*([Pub. L. 99–5, § 11](/us/pl/99/5/s11), Mar. 15, 1985, [99 Stat. 14](/us/stat/99/14).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay Rates

References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of [Pub. L. 101–509](/us/pl/101/509), set out in a note under [section 5376 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5376).
