---
title: "§ 1703. Denial of equal educational opportunity prohibited"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s204), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 515](/us/stat/88/515).)"
---
# § 1703. Denial of equal educational opportunity prohibited

##### § 1703. Denial of equal educational opportunity prohibited

(a) the deliberate segregation by an educational agency of students on the basis of race, color, or national origin among or within schools;

(b) the failure of an educational agency which has formerly practiced such deliberate segregation to take affirmative steps, consistent with part 4 of this subchapter, to remove the vestiges of a dual school system;

(c) the assignment by an educational agency of a student to a school, other than the one closest to his or her place of residence within the school district in which he or she resides, if the assignment results in a greater degree of segregation of students on the basis of race, color, sex, or national origin among the schools of such agency than would result if such student were assigned to the school closest to his or her place of residence within the school district of such agency providing the appropriate grade level and type of education for such student;

(d) discrimination by an educational agency on the basis of race, color, or national origin in the employment, employment conditions, or assignment to schools of its faculty or staff, except to fulfill the purposes of subsection (f) below;

(e) the transfer by an educational agency, whether voluntary or otherwise, of a student from one school to another if the purpose and effect of such transfer is to increase segregation of students on the basis of race, color, or national origin among the schools of such agency; or

(f) the failure by an educational agency to take appropriate action to overcome language barriers that impede equal participation by its students in its instructional programs.

*([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 204](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s204), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 515](/us/stat/88/515).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on and after sixtieth day after Aug. 21, 1974, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 93–380](/us/pl/93/380/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 1221–1 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221–1).
