---
title: "§ 3051. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3051"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3051"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1202](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1202), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/134/3252).)"
---
# § 3051. Definitions

##### § 3051. Definitions

(1) Authority The term “Authority” means the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Authority designated by [section 3052(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3052/a).

(2) Breeder The term “breeder” means a person who is in the business of breeding covered horses.

(3) Commission The term “Commission” means the Federal Trade Commission.

(4) Covered horse The term “covered horse” means any Thoroughbred horse, or any other horse made subject to this chapter by election of the applicable State racing commission or the breed governing organization for such horse under section 3054(k) 11 So in original. Probably should be “section 3054(*l*)”. of this title, during the period—

(A) beginning on the date of the horse’s first timed and reported workout at a racetrack that participates in covered horseraces or at a training facility; and

(B) ending on the date on which the Authority receives written notice that the horse has been retired.

(5) Covered horserace The term “covered horserace” means any horserace involving covered horses that has a substantial relation to interstate commerce, including any Thoroughbred horserace that is the subject of interstate off-track or advance deposit wagers.

(6) Covered persons The term “covered persons” means all trainers, owners, breeders, jockeys, racetracks, veterinarians, persons (legal and natural) licensed by a State racing commission and the agents, assigns, and employees of such persons and other horse support personnel who are engaged in the care, training, or racing of covered horses.

(7) Equine constituencies The term “equine constituencies” means, collectively, owners, breeders, trainers, racetracks, veterinarians, State racing commissions, and jockeys who are engaged in the care, training, or racing of covered horses.

(8) Equine industry representative The term “equine industry representative” means an organization regularly and significantly engaged in the equine industry, including organizations that represent the interests of, and whose membership consists of, owners, breeders, trainers, racetracks, veterinarians, State racing commissions, and jockeys.

(9) Horseracing anti-doping and medication control program The term “horseracing anti-doping and medication control program” means the anti-doping and medication program established under [section 3055(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3055/a).

(10) Immediate family member The term “immediate family member” shall include a spouse, domestic partner, mother, father, aunt, uncle, sibling, or child.

(11) Interstate off-track wager The term “interstate off-track wager” has the meaning given such term in [section 3002 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3002).

(12) Jockey The term “jockey” means a rider or driver of a covered horse in covered horseraces.

(13) Owner The term “owner” means a person who holds an ownership interest in one or more covered horses.

(14) Program effective date The term “program effective date” means July 1, 2022.

(15) Racetrack The term “racetrack” means an organization licensed by a State racing commission to conduct covered horseraces.

(16) Racetrack safety program The term “racetrack safety program” means the program established under [section 3056(a) of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3056/a).

(17) Stakes race The term “stakes race” means any race so designated by the racetrack at which such race is run, including, without limitation, the races comprising the Breeders’ Cup World Championships and the races designated as graded stakes by the American Graded Stakes Committee of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association.

(18) State racing commission The term “State racing commission” means an entity designated by State law or regulation that has jurisdiction over the conduct of horseracing within the applicable State.

(19) Trainer The term “trainer” means an individual engaged in the training of covered horses.

(20) Training facility The term “training facility” means a location that is not a racetrack licensed by a State racing commission that operates primarily to house covered horses and conduct official timed workouts.

(21) Veterinarian The term “veterinarian” means a licensed veterinarian who provides veterinary services to covered horses.

(22) Workout The term “workout” means a timed running of a horse over a predetermined distance not associated with a race or its first qualifying race, if such race is made subject to this chapter by election under section 3054(k) ^1 of this title of the horse’s breed governing organization or the applicable State racing commission.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1202](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1202), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/134/3252).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title XII of div. FF of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, § 1201](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tXII/s1201), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3252](/us/stat/134/3252), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act of 2020’.”
