---
title: "§ 220531. Grant to protect young athletes from abuse"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tIII/s302/a), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/132/1127); amended [Pub. L. 116–189](/us/pl/116/189), §§ 4(a)(11), 7(a)(2)(A)(vi), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 946](/us/stat/134/946), 957.)"
---
# § 220531. Grant to protect young athletes from abuse

##### § 220531. Grant to protect young athletes from abuse

(a) Authority.— The Attorney General may award a grant to an eligible nonprofit nongovernmental entity in order to support oversight of the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee and each national governing body with regard to safeguarding amateur athletes against abuse, including emotional, physical, and sexual abuse in sports.

(b) Applications.— To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a nonprofit nongovernmental entity shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may require, including information that demonstrates that the entity has—

(1) nationally recognized expertise in preventing and investigating emotional, physical, and sexual abuse in the athletic programs of the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee and each national governing body; and

(2) the capacity to oversee regular and random audits to ensure that the policies and procedures used by the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee and each national governing body to prevent and identify the abuse of an amateur athlete are followed correctly.

(c) Use of Grant Amount.— An entity that receives a grant under this section may use such funds—

(1) to develop and test new training materials for emotional, physical, and sexual abuse prevention and identification education in youth athletic programs;

(2) for staff salaries, travel expenses, equipment, printing, and other reasonable expenses necessary to develop, maintain, and disseminate to the United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee, each national governing body, and other amateur sports organizations information about safeguarding amateur athletes against abuse, including emotional, physical, and sexual abuse in sports; and

(3) to oversee the administration of the procedures described in subsection (b)(2).

(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—

(1) In general.— There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

(2) Availability of grant funds.— Funds appropriated under this section shall remain available until expended.

*(Added [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tIII/s302/a), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1127](/us/stat/132/1127); amended [Pub. L. 116–189](/us/pl/116/189), §§ 4(a)(11), 7(a)(2)(A)(vi), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 946](/us/stat/134/946), 957.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(2)(A)(vi)(I)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/2/A/vi/I), substituted “and each national governing body” for “, each national governing body, and each paralympic sports organization” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 4(a)(11)](/us/pl/116/189/s4/a/11), substituted “United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee” for “United States Olympic Committee” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(a)(2)(A)(vi)(II)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/a/2/A/vi/II), struck out “each paralympic sports organization,” after “each national governing body,”.
