---
title: "§ 2138. Purchase of dogs or cats by United States Government facilities prohibited except from authorized operators of auction sales and licensed dealers or exhibitors"
identifier: "USC-T7-S2138"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section2138"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–544, § 8](/us/pl/89/544/s8), Aug. 24, 1966, [80 Stat. 351](/us/stat/80/351); [Pub. L. 91–579, § 9](/us/pl/91/579/s9), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1562](/us/stat/84/1562).)"
---
# § 2138. Purchase of dogs or cats by United States Government facilities prohibited except from authorized operators of auction sales and licensed dealers or exhibitors

##### § 2138. Purchase of dogs or cats by United States Government facilities prohibited except from authorized operators of auction sales and licensed dealers or exhibitors

No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses animals for research or experimentation or exhibition shall purchase or otherwise acquire any dog or cat for such purposes from any person except an operator of an auction sale subject to [section 2142 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2142) or a person holding a valid license as a dealer or exhibitor issued by the Secretary pursuant to this chapter unless such person is exempted from obtaining such license under [section 2133 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2133).

*([Pub. L. 89–544, § 8](/us/pl/89/544/s8), Aug. 24, 1966, [80 Stat. 351](/us/stat/80/351); [Pub. L. 91–579, § 9](/us/pl/91/579/s9), Dec. 24, 1970, [84 Stat. 1562](/us/stat/84/1562).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1970—[Pub. L. 91–579](/us/pl/91/579) inserted reference to instrumentalities of the United States which use animals for exhibition and added operators of auction sales subject to [section 2142 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2142) and licensed exhibitors to the enumeration of persons from whom United States Government facilities may acquire dogs or cats.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–579](/us/pl/91/579) effective one year after Dec. 24, 1970, see [section 23 of Pub. L. 91–579](/us/pl/91/579/s23), set out as a note under [section 2131 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s2131).
