---
title: "§ 3043b. Annual reports on worldwide threats"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3043b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3043b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 108B, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title VI, § 617(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tVI/s617/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2400](/us/stat/134/2400).)"
---
# § 3043b. Annual reports on worldwide threats

##### § 3043b. Annual reports on worldwide threats

(a) Definition of appropriate congressional committees In this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(1) the congressional intelligence committees; and

(2) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

(b) Annual reports Not later than the first Monday in February 2021, and each year thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the heads of the elements of the intelligence community, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing an assessment of the intelligence community with respect to worldwide threats to the national security of the United States.

(c) Form Each report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex only for the protection of intelligence sources and methods relating to the matters contained in the report.

(d) Hearings

(1) Open hearings Upon request by the appropriate congressional committees, the Director (and any other head of an element of the intelligence community determined appropriate by the committees in consultation with the Director) shall testify before such committees in an open setting regarding a report under subsection (b).

(2) Closed hearings Any information that may not be disclosed during an open hearing under paragraph (1) in order to protect intelligence sources and methods may instead be discussed in a closed hearing that immediately follows such open hearing.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 108B, as added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. W, title VI, § 617(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dW/tVI/s617/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2400](/us/stat/134/2400).)*
