---
title: "§ 2021. Homeless veterans reintegration programs"
identifier: "USC-T38-S2021"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section2021"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 107–95, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/95/s5/a/1), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 909](/us/stat/115/909); amended [Pub. L. 109–233, title II, § 203](/us/pl/109/233/tII/s203), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 404](/us/stat/120/404); [Pub. L. 111–275, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/275/tII/s201), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2873](/us/stat/124/2873); [Pub. L. 112–37, § 10(b)](/us/pl/112/37/s10/b), Oct. 5, 2011, [125 Stat. 396](/us/stat/125/396); [Pub. L. 112–154, title III, § 305(b)](/us/pl/112/154/tIII/s305"
---
# § 2021. Homeless veterans reintegration programs

##### § 2021. Homeless veterans reintegration programs

(a) In General.— Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, the Secretary of Labor shall conduct, directly or through grant or contract, such programs as that Secretary determines appropriate to provide job training, counseling, and placement services (including job readiness and literacy and skills training) to expedite the reintegration into the labor force of—

(1) homeless veterans, including—

(A) veterans who were homeless but found housing during the 60-day period preceding the date on which the veteran begins to participate in a program under this section; and

(B) veterans who are at risk of homelessness during the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the veteran begins to participate in a program under this section;

(2) veterans participating in the Department of Housing and Urban Development-Department of Veterans Affairs supported housing program for which rental assistance is provided pursuant to section 8(*o*)(19) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ([42 U.S.C. 1437f](/us/usc/t42/s1437f)(*o*)(19)) or the Tribal HUD-VA Supportive Housing (Tribal HUD-VASH) program;

(3) Indians who are veterans and receiving assistance under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 ([25 U.S.C. 4101](/us/usc/t25/s4101) et seq.);

(4) veterans described in [section 2023(d) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2023/d) or any other veterans who are transitioning from being incarcerated; and

(5) veterans participating in the Department of Veterans Affairs rapid rehousing and prevention program authorized in [section 2044 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2044).

(b) Grants.—

(1) In awarding grants for purposes of conducting programs described in subsection (a), the Secretary of Labor shall, to the maximum extent practicable, consider applications for fundable grants from entities in all States.

(2) In each State in which no entity has been awarded a grant described in paragraph (1) as of the date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022, the Secretary of Labor shall, in coordination with the Director of Veterans’ Employment and Training in the State, organize and conduct an outreach and education program to ensure communities are aware of the programs conducted under this section and the benefits of the programs.

(c) Training and Technical Assistance.—

(1) The Secretary of Labor shall provide training and technical assistance to entities seeking a grant or contract under this section and recipients of a grant or contract under this section regarding the planning, development, and provision of services for which the grant or contract is awarded, including before and during the grant application or contract award period.

(2) The training and technical assistance provided under paragraph (1) shall include outreach and assistance specifically designed for entities serving regions and populations underserved by the programs conducted under this section.

(3) The Secretary of Labor may provide training and technical assistance under paragraph (1) directly or through grants or contracts with such public or nonprofit private entities as that Secretary considers appropriate.

(d) Requirement to Monitor Expenditures of Funds.—

(1) The Secretary of Labor shall collect such information as that Secretary considers appropriate to monitor and evaluate the distribution and expenditure of funds appropriated to carry out this section.

(2) Information collected under paragraph (1) shall include data with respect to the results or outcomes of the services provided to each homeless veteran under this section.

(3) Information collected under paragraph (1) shall be furnished in such form and manner as the Secretary of Labor may specify.

(e) Administration Through Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training.— The Secretary of Labor shall carry out this section through the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training.

(f) Provision of Services to Veterans in Certain Institutions.—

(1) The Attorney General of the United States shall permit a recipient of a grant or contract under this section or [section 2023 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2023) to provide services under this section or [section 2023 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2023) to any veteran described in subsection (a)(4) who is residing in a penal institution under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Prisons.

(2) The recipient of a grant or contract under this section may provide to officials of an institution described in paragraph (1) information regarding the services provided to veterans under this section and [section 2023 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s2023) during the 18-month period preceding the release or discharge of a veteran from the institution.

(g) Report on Services Provided.—

(1) The Secretary of Labor shall require each recipient of a grant or contract under this section to submit to that Secretary a report on the services provided and veterans served using grant or contract amounts not later than 90 days after the end of each program year, beginning with the program year the 11 So in original. Probably should be “that”. begins after the date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022.

(2) To the extent practicable, each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall—

(A) disaggregate the number of veterans served by—

(i) sex;

(ii) age;

(iii) race;

(iv) ethnicity;

(v) approximate era in which the veteran served in the Armed Forces;

(vi) the highest level of education attained;

(vii) the average period of time the veteran was unemployed or underemployed before receiving services under this section and while receiving such services; and

(viii) housing status as of—

(I) the date on which the veteran is first enrolled in services under this section; and

(II) any subsequent date, if such data is available; and

(B) include data on the number of veterans receiving services under this section who are eligible for health care and benefits provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(h) Reports to Congress.—

(1) Not less frequently than every two years, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress a report on the programs conducted under this section. The Secretary of Labor shall include in the report the following:

(A) An evaluation of services furnished to veterans under this section.

(B) An analysis of the information collected under subsection (d).

(C) An identification of—

(i) the total number of applications for grants under this section that the Secretary of Labor received during the fiscal year preceding the date on which the report is submitted; and

(ii) the number of such applications that were denied.

(D) With respect to each State in which no entity was awarded a grant under this section during the fiscal year preceding the date on which the report is submitted—

(i) an identification of the top five reasons why entities that applied for such a grant were not awarded the grant; and

(ii) information regarding the specific criteria used to score the applications and an explanation of if, how, or why such criteria differed from the previous fiscal year.

(2) Not later than 180 days after the end of the program year that begins after the date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022, and not later than 120 days after the end of each program year thereafter, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:

(A) Data obtained from the reports submitted under subsection (g), disaggregated by geographic location.

(B) The number of grants and contracts not awarded under this section due to insufficient funds.

(C) The number of returning recipients of grants or contracts that were and were not awarded grants or contracts under this section during the most recent application cycle.

(D) The number of applications received from entities in States in which no entities received a grant or contract under this section.

(E) The number of veterans who were admitted to a program conducted under this section but not placed in a job following participation in such program, disaggregated by geographic location, age, sex, and race or ethnicity.

(i) Authorization of Appropriations.—

(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section amounts as follows:

(A) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2002.

(B) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2003.

(C) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2004.

(D) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2005.

(E) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

(F) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2023.

(G) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2024 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(2) Funds appropriated to carry out this section shall remain available until expended. Funds obligated in any fiscal year to carry out this section may be expended in that fiscal year and the succeeding fiscal year.

*(Added [Pub. L. 107–95, § 5(a)(1)](/us/pl/107/95/s5/a/1), Dec. 21, 2001, [115 Stat. 909](/us/stat/115/909); amended [Pub. L. 109–233, title II, § 203](/us/pl/109/233/tII/s203), June 15, 2006, [120 Stat. 404](/us/stat/120/404); [Pub. L. 111–275, title II, § 201](/us/pl/111/275/tII/s201), Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2873](/us/stat/124/2873); [Pub. L. 112–37, § 10(b)](/us/pl/112/37/s10/b), Oct. 5, 2011, [125 Stat. 396](/us/stat/125/396); [Pub. L. 112–154, title III, § 305(b)](/us/pl/112/154/tIII/s305/b), Aug. 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 1187](/us/stat/126/1187); [Pub. L. 113–37, § 2(e)(1)](/us/pl/113/37/s2/e/1), Sept. 30, 2013, [127 Stat. 524](/us/stat/127/524); [Pub. L. 113–175, title II, § 202](/us/pl/113/175/tII/s202), Sept. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/128/1904); [Pub. L. 114–58, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/58/tIII/s301), Sept. 30, 2015, [129 Stat. 533](/us/stat/129/533); [Pub. L. 114–228, title III, § 301](/us/pl/114/228/tIII/s301), Sept. 29, 2016, [130 Stat. 938](/us/stat/130/938); [Pub. L. 115–62, title III, § 301](/us/pl/115/62/tIII/s301), Sept. 29, 2017, [131 Stat. 1163](/us/stat/131/1163); [Pub. L. 115–251, title I, § 141](/us/pl/115/251/tI/s141), Sept. 29, 2018, [132 Stat. 3170](/us/stat/132/3170); [Pub. L. 115–407, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/115/407/tVII/s701), Dec. 31, 2018, [132 Stat. 5381](/us/stat/132/5381); [Pub. L. 116–159, div. E, title III, § 5301](/us/pl/116/159/dE/tIII/s5301), Oct. 1, 2020, [134 Stat. 750](/us/stat/134/750); [Pub. L. 116–315, title IV, § 4205(b)](/us/pl/116/315/tIV/s4205/b), Jan. 5, 2021, [134 Stat. 5014](/us/stat/134/5014); [Pub. L. 117–180, div. E, title III, § 301](/us/pl/117/180/dE/tIII/s301), Sept. 30, 2022, [136 Stat. 2138](/us/stat/136/2138); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. U, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/117/328/dU/tIII/s303/a), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5467](/us/stat/136/5467).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act of 1996, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is [Pub. L. 104–330](/us/pl/104/330), Oct. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 4016](/us/stat/110/4016), which is classified principally to chapter 43 (§ 4101 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4101 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s4101) and Tables.

The date of the enactment of the Joseph Maxwell Cleland and Robert Joseph Dole Memorial Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2022, referred to in subsecs. (b)(2), (g)(1), and (h)(2), is the date of enactment of div. U of [Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328), which was approved Dec. 29, 2022.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2021 was renumbered [section 4301 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s4301) and subsequently omitted in the general amendment of chapter 43 of this title by [Pub. L. 103–353, § 2(a)](/us/pl/103/353/s2/a), Oct. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 3150](/us/stat/108/3150).

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–328](/us/pl/117/328) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to homeless veterans reintegration programs and authorized appropriations to carry out this section.

Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 117–180](/us/pl/117/180) substituted “2024” for “2022”.

2021—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 116–315](/us/pl/116/315) substituted “section 2023(d)” for “section 2023(e)”.

2020—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 116–159](/us/pl/116/159) substituted “2022” for “2020”.

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–407](/us/pl/115/407) substituted “reintegration into the labor force of—” for “reintegration of homeless veterans into the labor force.” and added pars. (1) to (5).

Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 115–251](/us/pl/115/251) substituted “2020” for “2018”.

2017—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 115–62](/us/pl/115/62) substituted “2018” for “2017”.

2016—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 114–228](/us/pl/114/228) substituted “2017” for “2016”.

2015—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 114–58](/us/pl/114/58) substituted “2016” for “2015”.

2014—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 113–175](/us/pl/113/175) substituted “2015” for “2014”.

2013—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 113–37](/us/pl/113/37) substituted “2014” for “2013”.

2012—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 112–154](/us/pl/112/154) substituted “2013” for “2012”.

2011—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 112–37](/us/pl/112/37) substituted “2012” for “2011”.

2010—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 111–275](/us/pl/111/275) substituted “2011” for “2009”.

2006—Subsec. (e)(1)(F). [Pub. L. 109–233](/us/pl/109/233) added subpar. (F).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 113–37](/us/pl/113/37) effective Oct. 1, 2013, see [section 4(a) of Pub. L. 113–37](/us/pl/113/37/s4/a), set out as a note under [section 322 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s322).
