---
title: "§ 1359. Advisory councils for technical services; appointment; functions; compensation and expenses"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1359"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1359"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–182, § 9](/us/pl/89/182/s9), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 682](/us/stat/79/682).)"
---
# § 1359. Advisory councils for technical services; appointment; functions; compensation and expenses

##### § 1359. Advisory councils for technical services; appointment; functions; compensation and expenses

Each designated agency shall appoint an advisory council for technical services, the members of which shall represent broad community interests and shall be qualified to evaluate programs submitted under [section 1354 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1354). The advisory council shall review each annual program, evaluate its relation to the purposes of this chapter, and report its findings to the designated agency and the Governor or his designee. Each report of each advisory council shall be available to the Secretary on request. Members of any such advisory council shall not be compensated for serving as such, but may be reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred by them in connection with attending meetings of any advisory council of which they are members.

*([Pub. L. 89–182, § 9](/us/pl/89/182/s9), Sept. 14, 1965, [79 Stat. 682](/us/stat/79/682).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Councils

Advisory councils in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
