---
title: "§ 525. Special agents of the Coast Guard Investigative Service law enforcement authority"
identifier: "USC-T14-S525"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section525"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 100–448, § 10(a)](/us/pl/100/448/s10/a), Sept. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 1842](/us/stat/102/1842), § 95; amended [Pub. L. 105–383, title II, § 205(a)](/us/pl/105/383/tII/s205/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3415](/us/stat/112/3415); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(a)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/116/2314); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 217(2)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s217/2), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/126/1557); renumbered § 525"
---
# § 525. Special agents of the Coast Guard Investigative Service law enforcement authority

##### § 525. Special agents of the Coast Guard Investigative Service law enforcement authority

(a)

(1) A special agent of the Coast Guard Investigative Service designated under subsection (b) has the following authority:

(A) To carry firearms.

(B) To execute and serve any warrant or other process issued under the authority of the United States.

(C) To make arrests without warrant for—

(i) any offense against the United States committed in the agent’s presence; or

(ii) any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States if the agent has probable cause to believe that the individual to be arrested has committed or is committing the felony.

(2) The authorities provided in paragraph (1) shall be exercised only in the enforcement of statutes for which the Coast Guard has law enforcement authority, or in exigent circumstances.

(b) The Commandant may designate to have the authority provided under subsection (a) any special agent of the Coast Guard Investigative Service whose duties include conducting, supervising, or coordinating investigation of criminal activity in programs and operations of the United States Coast Guard.

(c) The authority provided under subsection (a) shall be exercised in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Commandant and approved by the Attorney General and any other applicable guidelines prescribed by the Secretary or the Attorney General.

*(Added [Pub. L. 100–448, § 10(a)](/us/pl/100/448/s10/a), Sept. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 1842](/us/stat/102/1842), § 95; amended [Pub. L. 105–383, title II, § 205(a)](/us/pl/105/383/tII/s205/a), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3415](/us/stat/112/3415); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(a)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1704/a), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2314](/us/stat/116/2314); [Pub. L. 112–213, title II, § 217(2)](/us/pl/112/213/tII/s217/2), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1557](/us/stat/126/1557); renumbered § 525, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 105(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s105/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4200](/us/stat/132/4200); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXV) [LXXXV], § 8505(a)(6), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4748](/us/stat/134/4748).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (a)(1)(C)(ii). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “individual” for “person”.

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 95 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s95) as this section.

2012—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213) struck out “of Homeland Security” after “Secretary”.

2002—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) substituted “of Homeland Security” for “of Transportation”.

1998—[Pub. L. 105–383](/us/pl/105/383) substituted “Special agents of the Coast Guard Investigative Service law enforcement authority” for “Civilian agents authorized to carry firearms” as section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary with the approval of the Attorney General, civilian special agents of the Coast Guard may carry firearms or other appropriate weapons while assigned to official investigative or law enforcement duties.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see [section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s1704/g), set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s101), Armed Forces.
