---
title: "§ 6052. Returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance"
identifier: "USC-T26-S6052"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section6052"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 88–272, title II, § 204(c)(1)](/us/pl/88/272/tII/s204/c/1), Feb. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 37](/us/stat/78/37); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834); [Pub. L. 99–514, title XV, § 1501(c)(14)](/us/pl/99/514/tXV/s1501/c/14), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2740](/us/stat/100/2740).)"
---
# § 6052. Returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance

##### § 6052. Returns regarding payment of wages in the form of group-term life insurance

(a) Requirement of reporting Every employer who during any calendar year provides group-term life insurance on the life of an employee during part or all of such calendar year under a policy (or policies) carried directly or indirectly by such employer shall make a return according to the forms or regulations prescribed by the Secretary, setting forth the cost of such insurance and the name and address of the employee on whose life such insurance is provided, but only to the extent that the cost of such insurance is includible in the employee’s gross income under section 79(a). For purposes of this section, the extent to which the cost of group-term life insurance is includible in the employee’s gross income under section 79(a) shall be determined as if the employer were the only employer paying such employee remuneration in the form of such insurance.

(b) Statements to be furnished to employees with respect to whom information is required Every employer required to make a return under subsection (a) shall furnish to each employee whose name is required to be set forth in such return a written statement showing the cost of the group-term life insurance shown on such return. The written statement required under the preceding sentence shall be furnished to the employee on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year for which the return under subsection (a) was required to be made.

*(Added [Pub. L. 88–272, title II, § 204(c)(1)](/us/pl/88/272/tII/s204/c/1), Feb. 26, 1964, [78 Stat. 37](/us/stat/78/37); amended [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834); [Pub. L. 99–514, title XV, § 1501(c)(14)](/us/pl/99/514/tXV/s1501/c/14), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2740](/us/stat/100/2740).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514), in amending subsec. (b) generally, substituted “information is required” for “information is furnished” in heading, and in text substituted reference to employers required to make a return for former reference to employers making a return and reference to employees whose name is required to be set forth for former reference to employees whose name is set forth.

1976—[Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) applicable to returns the due date for which (determined without regard to extensions) is after Dec. 31, 1986, see [section 1501(e) of Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514/s1501/e), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6721 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s6721).

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to group-term life insurance provided after Dec. 31, 1963, in taxable years ending after such date, see [section 204(d) of Pub. L. 88–272](/us/pl/88/272/s204/d), set out as a note under [section 79 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s79).
