---
title: "§ 44301. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/108/1168); [Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 106(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/176/tI/s106/a/2), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/117/2498).)"
---
# § 44301. Definitions

##### § 44301. Definitions

(1) “aircraft manufacturer” means any company or other business entity, the majority ownership and control of which is by United States citizens, that manufactures aircraft or aircraft engines.

(2) “American aircraft” means—

(A) a civil aircraft of the United States; and

(B) an aircraft owned or chartered by, or made available to—

(i) the United States Government; or

(ii) a State, the District of Columbia, a territory or possession of the United States, or a political subdivision of the State, territory, or possession.

(3) “insurance carrier” means a person authorized to do aviation insurance business in a State, including a mutual or stock insurance company and a reciprocal insurance association.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1168](/us/stat/108/1168); [Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 106(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/176/tI/s106/a/2), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2498](/us/stat/117/2498).)*

In this section, the text of 49 App.:1531(3) is omitted as surplus because the complete name of the Secretary of Transportation is used the first time the term appears in a section.

In clause (1)(B)(i), the words “United States Government” are substituted for “United States or any department or agency thereof” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

In clause (1)(B)(ii), the words “the government of” are omitted for consistency in the revised title.

In clause (2), the words “insurance company” are omitted as being included in “insurance carrier”. The words “means a person” are added because they are inclusive. The words “group or association” are omitted as being included in “person”. The word “State” is substituted for “State of the United States” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 44301 | 49 App.:1531. | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1301, 72 Stat. 800; restated Nov. 9, 1977, Pub. L. 95–163, § 1(a), 91 Stat. 1278. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2003—[Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176) added par. (1) and redesignated former pars. (1) and (2) as (2) and (3), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176) applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s3), set out as a note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
