---
title: "§ 2298. Impact of proposed projects on existing recreation facilities"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2298"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2298"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 928](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s928), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4195](/us/stat/100/4195).)"
---
# § 2298. Impact of proposed projects on existing recreation facilities

##### § 2298. Impact of proposed projects on existing recreation facilities

Any report describing a project having recreation benefits that is submitted after November 17, 1986, to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate or the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives by the Secretary, or by the Secretary of Agriculture under authority of the Watershed Protection and Flood Protection Act ([68 Stat. 666](/us/stat/68/666); [16 U.S.C. 1001](/us/usc/t16/s1001) et seq.), shall describe the usage of other, similar public recreational facilities within the general area of the project, and the anticipated impact of the proposed project on the usage of such existing recreational facilities.

*([Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 928](/us/pl/99/662/tIX/s928), Nov. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 4195](/us/stat/100/4195).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 4, 1954, ch. 656](/us/act/1954-08-04/ch656), [68 Stat. 666](/us/stat/68/666), which is classified principally to chapter 18 (§ 1001 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1001 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1001) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Public Works and Transportation of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress.
