---
title: "§ 5116. Standards for Indians appointed to Indian Office"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5116"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5116"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 12](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s12), [48 Stat. 986](/us/stat/48/986).)"
---
# § 5116. Standards for Indians appointed to Indian Office

##### § 5116. Standards for Indians appointed to Indian Office

The Secretary of the Interior is directed to establish standards of health, age, character, experience, knowledge, and ability for Indians who may be appointed, without regard to civil-service laws, to the various positions maintained, now or hereafter, by the Indian Office, in the administration of functions or services affecting any Indian tribe. Such qualified Indians shall hereafter have the preference to appointment to vacancies in any such positions.

*([June 18, 1934, ch. 576, § 12](/us/act/1934-06-18/ch576/s12), [48 Stat. 986](/us/stat/48/986).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 472 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s472) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Conversion to Career Appointment

Status of Indian appointed to Federal service under excepted appointment to be converted to career appointment in competitive service after three years of continuous service and satisfactory performance, see [section 5323(m) of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5323/m).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
