---
title: "§ 221. Consolidations and mergers of telephone companies"
identifier: "USC-T47-S221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 221, [48 Stat. 1080](/us/stat/48/1080); [Apr. 27, 1954, ch. 175, § 4](/us/act/1954-04-27/ch175/s4), [68 Stat. 64](/us/stat/68/64); [Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 874, § 3](/us/act/1956-08-02/ch874/s3), [70 Stat. 932](/us/stat/70/932); [Pub. L. 101–336, title IV, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/336/tIV/s401/b/2), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 369](/us/stat/104/369); [Pub. L. 104–104, title VI, § 601(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/104/tVI/s601/b/2), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 S"
---
# § 221. Consolidations and mergers of telephone companies

##### § 221. Consolidations and mergers of telephone companies

(a) Repealed. [Pub. L. 104–104, title VI, § 601(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/104/tVI/s601/b/2), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 143](/us/stat/110/143)

(b) State jurisdiction over services Subject to the provisions of sections 225 and 301 of this title, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply, or to give the Commission jurisdiction, with respect to charges, classifications, practices, services, facilities, or regulations for or in connection with wire, mobile, or point-to-point radio telephone exchange service, or any combination thereof, even though a portion of such exchange service constitutes interstate or foreign communication, in any case where such matters are subject to regulation by a State commission or by local governmental authority.

(c) Determination of property used in interstate toll service For the purpose of administering this chapter as to carriers engaged in wire telephone communication, the Commission may classify the property of any such carrier used for wire telephone communication, and determine what property of said carrier shall be considered as used in interstate or foreign telephone toll service. Such classification shall be made after hearing, upon notice to the carrier, the State commission (or the Governor, if the State has no State commission) of any State in which the property of said carrier is located, and such other persons as the Commission may prescribe.

(d) Valuation of property In making a valuation of the property of any wire telephone carrier the Commission, after making the classification authorized in this section, may in its discretion value only that part of the property of such carrier determined to be used in interstate or foreign telephone toll service.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title II, § 221, [48 Stat. 1080](/us/stat/48/1080); [Apr. 27, 1954, ch. 175, § 4](/us/act/1954-04-27/ch175/s4), [68 Stat. 64](/us/stat/68/64); [Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 874, § 3](/us/act/1956-08-02/ch874/s3), [70 Stat. 932](/us/stat/70/932); [Pub. L. 101–336, title IV, § 401(b)(2)](/us/pl/101/336/tIV/s401/b/2), July 26, 1990, [104 Stat. 369](/us/stat/104/369); [Pub. L. 104–104, title VI, § 601(b)(2)](/us/pl/104/104/tVI/s601/b/2), Feb. 8, 1996, [110 Stat. 143](/us/stat/110/143).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), known as the Communications Act of 1934, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–104](/us/pl/104/104) struck out subsec. (a) relating to notification of State Governor and State commission, public hearing, and certification.

1990—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 101–336](/us/pl/101/336) substituted “sections 225 and 301” for “section 301”.

1956—Subsec. (a). Act Aug. 2, 1956, inserted provisions relating to submission of comments by parties and required a public hearing upon request, in lieu of former provisions requiring hearing upon application.

1954—Subsec. (b). Act Apr. 27, 1954, included mobile or point-to-point radio telephone exchange service within exclusions provided for in such subsection, where it is subject to regulation by a State commission or by local governmental authority, and made it clear that the Commission retains its licensing authority over the radio stations that might be involved in such service.
