---
title: "§ 140303. Powers"
identifier: "USC-T36-S140303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section140303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1380](/us/stat/112/1380).)"
---
# § 140303. Powers

##### § 140303. Powers

(1) make its own organization, including its constitution, bylaws, and regulations;

(2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

(3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;

(4) appoint or elect officers and agents;

(5) authorize the executive committee to conduct the business and exercise the powers of the corporation;

(6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

(7) publish a magazine and other publications;

(8) charge and collect membership dues and subscription fees;

(9) sue and be sued; and

(10) do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1380](/us/stat/112/1380).)*

In clause (1), the word “rules” is omitted as being the same as “regulations”.

In clause (2), the words “at pleasure” are omitted as unnecessary.

In clause (3), the words “and transaction” are omitted as unnecessary. The word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

Clause (6) is substituted for “acquire, by purchase, devise, bequest, gift, or otherwise, and hold, encumber, convey, or otherwise dispose of, such real and personal property as may be necessary or appropriate for its corporate purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The text of 36:315 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

In clause (8), the words “and receive contributions of money or property to be devoted to the carrying out of the purposes of the organization” are omitted as unnecessary because of clause (6) of the revised section.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 140303 | 36:314(b)–(k). | Sept. 20, 1950, ch. 956, §§ 4(b)–(k), 5, 64 Stat. 868. |
|  | 36:315. |  |
