---
title: "§ 17501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T40-S17501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section17501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1283](/us/stat/116/1283).)"
---
# § 17501. Definitions

##### § 17501. Definitions

(1) Executive agency.— The term “executive agency”—

(A) means an executive agency (as that term is defined in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105)) that operates at least 300 motor vehicles; but

(B) does not include the Tennessee Valley Authority.

(2) Motor vehicle.— The term “motor vehicle” means—

(A) a vehicle self-propelled or drawn by mechanical power; but not

(B) a vehicle designed or used for military field training, combat, or tactical purposes, or any other special purpose vehicle exempted from the requirements of this chapter by the Administrator of General Services.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1283](/us/stat/116/1283).)*

In this section, the text of 40:913(2)–(4) is omitted as unnecessary because the complete names of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Administrator of General Services, and the Comptroller General of the United States are used the first time the terms appear in a section.

Before clause (1), the words “this chapter” were in the original “this title”, meaning title XV (§§ 15101 to 15313) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ([Public Law 99–272](/us/pl/99/272), [100 Stat. 330](/us/stat/100/330)). In clause (2)(B), the words “this chapter” are substituted for “this part” as the probable intent of Congress because title XV of the Act does not contain part designations and the intention was probably to refer to title XV, which is restated as this chapter.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 17501 | 40:913. | Pub. L. 99–272, title XV, § 15313, Apr. 7, 1986, 100 Stat. 338. |
