---
title: "§ 11278. Performance standards"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11278"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11278"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 386A](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s386A), as added [Pub. L. 110–378, § 8](/us/pl/110/378/s8), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4071](/us/stat/122/4071).)"
---
# § 11278. Performance standards

##### § 11278. Performance standards

(a) Establishment of performance standards Not later than 1 year after October 8, 2008, the Secretary shall issue rules that specify performance standards for public and nonprofit private entities and agencies that receive grants under sections 11211, 11221, and 11261 of this title.

(b) Consultation The Secretary shall consult with representatives of public and nonprofit private entities and agencies that receive grants under this subchapter, including statewide and regional nonprofit organizations (including combinations of such organizations) that receive grants under this subchapter, and national nonprofit organizations concerned with youth homelessness, in developing the performance standards required by subsection (a).

(c) Implementation of performance standards The Secretary shall integrate the performance standards into the processes of the Department of Health and Human Services for grantmaking, monitoring, and evaluation for programs under sections 11211, 11221, and 11261 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title III, § 386A](/us/pl/93/415/tIII/s386A), as added [Pub. L. 110–378, § 8](/us/pl/110/378/s8), Oct. 8, 2008, [122 Stat. 4071](/us/stat/122/4071).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5732–1 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5732–1), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
