---
title: "§ 5756. Home marketing incentive payment"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5756"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5756"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVII, § 1717](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVII/s1717), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2757](/us/stat/110/2757).)"
---
# § 5756. Home marketing incentive payment

##### § 5756. Home marketing incentive payment

(a) Under regulations prescribed under subsection (b), an agency may pay to an employee who transfers in the interest of the Government an amount to encourage the employee to aggressively market the employee’s residence at the official station from which transferred when—

(1) the residence is entered into a relocation services program established under a contract in accordance with [section 5724c of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5724c) to arrange for the purchase of the residence;

(2) the employee finds a buyer who completes the purchase of the residence through the program; and

(3) the sale of the residence results in a reduced cost to the Government.

(b)

(1) The Administrator of General Services shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

(2) The regulations shall include a limitation on the maximum amount payable with respect to an employee’s residence. The Administrator shall establish the limitation in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. For fiscal years 1997 and 1998, the maximum amount shall be the amount equal to five percent of the sale price of the residence.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVII, § 1717](/us/pl/104/201/dA/tXVII/s1717), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2757](/us/stat/110/2757).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 180 days after Sept. 23, 1996, see [section 1725(a) of Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201/s1725/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 5722 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5722).
