---
title: "§ 6103. Issuance of orders"
identifier: "USC-T7-S6103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section6103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1924](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1924), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3856](/us/stat/104/3856).)"
---
# § 6103. Issuance of orders

##### § 6103. Issuance of orders

(a) In general To effectuate the declared policy of [section 6101(b) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6101/b), the Secretary, subject to the procedures provided in subsection (b), shall issue orders under this chapter applicable to producers, importers, and first handlers of mushrooms. Any such order shall be national in scope. Not more than one order shall be in effect under this chapter at any one time.

(b) Procedures

(1) Issuance of an order The Secretary may propose the issuance of an order under this chapter, or an association of mushroom producers or any other person that will be affected by this chapter may request the issuance of, and submit a proposal for, such an order.

(2) Publication of order Not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request and proposal by an interested person for an order, or when the Secretary determines to propose an order, the Secretary shall publish the proposed order and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.

(3) Issuance of order After notice and opportunity for public comment are given, as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall issue the order, taking into consideration the comments received and including in the order provisions necessary to ensure that the order is in conformity with the requirements of this chapter. Such order shall be issued and, if approved by producers and importers of mushrooms as provided in [section 6105(a) of this title](/us/usc/t7/s6105/a), shall become effective not later than 180 days following publication of the proposed order.

(c) Amendments

(1) In general The Secretary, from time to time, may amend any order issued under this section.

(2) Application of chapter The provisions of this chapter applicable to an order shall be applicable to amendments to the order.

*([Pub. L. 101–624, title XIX, § 1924](/us/pl/101/624/tXIX/s1924), Nov. 28, 1990, [104 Stat. 3856](/us/stat/104/3856).)*
