---
title: "§ 290bb–22. Priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290bb–22"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290bb–22"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 516, formerly § 509, as added [Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4005(a)](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4005/a), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–112](/us/stat/100/3207-112); renumbered § 516 and amended [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 113(f)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s113/f), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 345](/us/stat/106/345); [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3302(a)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3302/a), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1209](/us/stat/114/1209);"
---
# § 290bb–22. Priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance

##### § 290bb–22. Priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance

(a) Projects The Secretary shall address priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance (as determined under subsection (b)) through the provision of or through assistance for—

The Secretary may carry out the activities described in this section directly or through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with States, political subdivisions of States, Indian Tribes or Tribal organizations (as such terms are defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)), health facilities, or programs operated by or in accordance with a contract or grant with the Indian Health Service, or other public or nonprofit private entities.

(1) knowledge development and application projects for prevention and the conduct or support of evaluations of such projects;

(2) training and technical assistance; and

(3) targeted capacity response programs, including such programs that focus on emerging drug use issues.

(b) Priority substance use disorder prevention needs

(1) In general Priority substance use disorder prevention needs of regional and national significance shall be determined by the Secretary in consultation with the States and other interested groups. The Secretary shall meet with the States and interested groups on an annual basis to discuss program priorities.

(2) Special consideration In developing program priorities under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give special consideration to—

(A) applying the most promising strategies and research-based primary prevention approaches;

(B) promoting the integration of substance use disorder prevention information and activities into primary health care systems; and

(C) substance use disorder prevention among high-risk groups.

(c) Requirements

(1) In general Recipients of grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this section shall comply with information and application requirements determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(2) Duration of award With respect to a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement awarded under this section, the period during which payments under such award are made to the recipient may not exceed 5 years.

(3) Matching funds The Secretary may, for projects carried out under subsection (a), require that entities that apply for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under that project provide non-Federal matching funds, as determined appropriate by the Secretary, to ensure the institutional commitment of the entity to the projects funded under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement. Such non-Federal matching funds may be provided directly or through donations from public or private entities and may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services.

(4) Maintenance of effort With respect to activities for which a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is awarded under this section, the Secretary may require that recipients for specific projects under subsection (a) agree to maintain expenditures of non-Federal amounts for such activities at a level that is not less than the level of such expenditures maintained by the entity for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the entity receives such a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.

(d) Evaluation The Secretary shall evaluate each project carried out under subsection (a)(1) and shall disseminate the findings with respect to each such evaluation to appropriate public and private entities.

(e) Information and education The Secretary shall establish comprehensive information and education programs to disseminate the findings of the knowledge development and application, training and technical assistance programs, and targeted capacity response programs under this section to the general public and to health professionals. The Secretary shall make every effort to provide linkages between the findings of supported projects and State agencies responsible for carrying out substance use disorder prevention and treatment programs.

(f) Authorization of appropriation There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $218,219,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 516, formerly § 509, as added [Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4005(a)](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4005/a), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–112](/us/stat/100/3207-112); renumbered § 516 and amended [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 113(f)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s113/f), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 345](/us/stat/106/345); [Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3302(a)](/us/pl/106/310/dB/tXXXIII/s3302/a), Oct. 17, 2000, [114 Stat. 1209](/us/stat/114/1209); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title VII, § 7005](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tVII/s7005), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1224](/us/stat/130/1224); [Pub. L. 117–328, div. FF, title I, § 1214](/us/pl/117/328/dFF/tI/s1214), Dec. 29, 2022, [136 Stat. 5661](/us/stat/136/5661).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 290aa–7 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290aa–7) prior to renumbering by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 516 of act July 1, 1944, was classified to [section 290cc–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–1), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 123(c)](/us/pl/102/321/tI/s123/c), July 10, 1992, [106 Stat. 363](/us/stat/106/363).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1214(1)(B)](/us/pl/117/328/s1214/1/B), substituted “Tribes or Tribal organizations” for “tribes or tribal organizations” in concluding provisions.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1214(1)(A)](/us/pl/117/328/s1214/1/A), substituted “use” for “abuse”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1214(2)](/us/pl/117/328/s1214/2), substituted “use disorder” for “abuse” in heading.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 117–328, § 1214(3)](/us/pl/117/328/s1214/3), substituted “$218,219,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027” for “$211,148,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022”.

2016—[Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(1)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/1), substituted “use disorder” for “abuse” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(2)(A)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/2/A), (C), in introductory provisions, substituted “use disorder” for “abuse” and, in concluding provisions, inserted “, contracts,” before “or cooperative agreements” and substituted “Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as such terms are defined in [section 5304 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304)), health facilities, or programs operated by or in accordance with a contract or grant with the Indian Health Service,” for “Indian tribes and tribal organizations,”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(2)(B)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/2/B), inserted “, including such programs that focus on emerging drug abuse issues” before period.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(3)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/3), substituted “use disorder” for “abuse” in pars. (1) and (2)(B) and added par. (2)(C).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(4)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/4), substituted “use disorder” for “abuse”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 114–255, § 7005(5)](/us/pl/114/255/s7005/5), substituted “$211,148,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022.” for “$300,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 and 2003.”

2000—[Pub. L. 106–310](/us/pl/106/310) amended section catchline and text generally, substituting provisions relating to priority substance abuse prevention needs of regional and national significance for provisions relating to community programs.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–321, § 113(f)(4)](/us/pl/102/321/s113/f/4), amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to community programs for provisions relating to alcohol and drug abuse information clearinghouse.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321) effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of [Pub. L. 102–321](/us/pl/102/321), set out as a note under [section 236 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s236).
