---
title: "§ 2347b. Purpose and need"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2347b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2347b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1126](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1126), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3779](/us/stat/132/3779).)"
---
# § 2347b. Purpose and need

##### § 2347b. Purpose and need

(a) Purpose and need statements

(1) In general Not later than 90 days after the date of receipt of a complete application for a water storage project, the District Engineer shall develop and provide to the applicant a purpose and need statement that describes—

(A) whether the District Engineer concurs with the assessment of the purpose of and need for the water storage project proposed by the applicant; and

(B) in any case in which the District Engineer does not concur as described in subparagraph (A), an assessment by the District Engineer of the purpose of and need for the project.

(2) Effect on environmental impact statements No environmental impact statement or environmental assessment required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([42 U.S.C. 4321](/us/usc/t42/s4321) et seq.) shall substantially commence with respect to a water storage project until the date on which the District Engineer provides to the applicant a purpose and need statement as required under paragraph (1).

(b) Appeals request A non-Federal interest may use the administrative appeals process described in part 331 of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations (or any succeeding regulation), in relation to a decision of the Secretary related to an application for a water storage project.

*([Pub. L. 115–270, title I, § 1126](/us/pl/115/270/tI/s1126), Oct. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 3779](/us/stat/132/3779).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is [Pub. L. 91–190](/us/pl/91/190), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 852](/us/stat/83/852), which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4321 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s4321) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018, and also as part of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 102 of Pub. L. 115–270](/us/pl/115/270/s102), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
