---
title: "§ 4714. Recordkeeping"
identifier: "USC-T12-S4714"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section4714"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–325, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/325/tI/s115), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/108/2184).)"
---
# § 4714. Recordkeeping

##### § 4714. Recordkeeping

(a) In general A community development financial institution receiving assistance from the Fund shall keep such records, for such periods as may be prescribed by the Fund and necessary to disclose the manner in which any assistance under this subchapter is used and to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.

(b) User profile information The Fund shall require each community development financial institution or other organization receiving assistance from the Fund to compile such data, as is determined to be appropriate by the Fund, on the gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, or other pertinent information concerning individuals that utilize the services of the assisted institution to ensure that targeted populations and low-income residents of investment areas are adequately served.

(c) Access to records The Fund shall have access on demand, for the purpose of determining compliance with this subchapter, to any records of a community development financial institution or other organization that receives assistance from the Fund.

(d) Review Not less than annually, the Fund shall review the progress of each assisted community development financial institution in carrying out its strategic plan, meeting its performance goals, and satisfying the terms and conditions of its assistance agreement.

(e) Reporting

(1) Annual reports The Fund shall require each community development financial institution receiving assistance under this subchapter to submit an annual report to the Fund on its activities, its financial condition, and its success in meeting performance goals, in satisfying the terms and conditions of its assistance agreement, and in complying with other requirements of this subchapter, in such form and manner as the Fund shall specify.

(2) Availability of reports The Fund, after deleting or redacting any material as appropriate to protect privacy or proprietary interests, shall make such reports submitted under paragraph (1) available for public inspection.

*([Pub. L. 103–325, title I, § 115](/us/pl/103/325/tI/s115), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/108/2184).)*
