---
title: "§ 624. Limitation on improvement work by private contract"
identifier: "USC-T33-S624"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section624"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Mar. 2, 1919, ch. 95, § 8](/us/act/1919-03-02/ch95/s8), [40 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/40/1290); [Pub. L. 95–269, § 2](/us/pl/95/269/s2), Apr. 26, 1978, [92 Stat. 219](/us/stat/92/219).)"
---
# § 624. Limitation on improvement work by private contract

##### § 624. Limitation on improvement work by private contract

(a) Determinations respecting comparison of private contract price with estimation of cost of performance of work by Government plant or by well-equipped contractor No works of river and harbor improvement shall be done by private contract—

(1) if the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, determines that Government plant is reasonably available to perform the subject work and the contract price for doing the work is more than 25 per centum in excess of the estimated comparable cost of doing the work by Government plant; or

(2) in any other circumstance where the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, determines that the contract price is more than 25 per centum in excess of what he determines to be a fair and reasonable estimated cost of a well-equipped contractor doing the work.

(b) Considerations involved in determinations of estimation of cost of performance of work by Government plant In estimating the comparable cost of doing the work under subsection (a)(1) by Government plant the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers shall, in addition to the cost of labor and materials, take into account proper charges for depreciation of plant, all supervising and overhead expenses, interest on the capital invested in the Government plant (but the rate of interest shall not exceed the maximum prevailing rate being paid by the United States on current issues of bonds or other evidences of indebtedness) and such other Government expenses and charges as the Chief of Engineers determines to be appropriate.

(c) Considerations involved in determinations of estimation of cost of performance of work by well-equipped contractor In determining a fair and reasonable estimated cost of doing work by private contract under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, shall, in addition to the cost of labor and materials, take into account proper charges for depreciation of plant, all expenses for supervision, overhead, workmen’s compensation, general liability insurance, taxes (State and local), interest on capital invested in plant, and such other expenses and charges the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, determines to be appropriate.

*([Mar. 2, 1919, ch. 95, § 8](/us/act/1919-03-02/ch95/s8), [40 Stat. 1290](/us/stat/40/1290); [Pub. L. 95–269, § 2](/us/pl/95/269/s2), Apr. 26, 1978, [92 Stat. 219](/us/stat/92/219).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1919.

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–269](/us/pl/95/269) designated existing provision as subsec. (a), substituted provisions relating to determinations by the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, respecting contract prices for performance of works of river and harbor improvement by a Government plant or by a well-equipped contractor as a limitation on performance of the work by private contract, for provisions relating to limitation on use of funds for works of river and harbor improvement pursuant to private contract based on estimation of cost for performance of work by Government plant and factors constituting cost estimation, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Compensation for Increased Costs

Provision for payment to contractors to compensate for loss occasioned by increased cost of materials during the war with Germany was made by section 10 of act Mar. 2, 1919, and [act June 5, 1920, ch. 252, § 5](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch252/s5), [41 Stat. 1014](/us/stat/41/1014).

#### Repeal of Limitation on Costs

A provision for limitation on the costs of projects made by section 1 of act Mar. 2, 1919, was repealed by [act June 5, 1920, ch. 252, § 3](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch252/s3), [41 Stat. 1013](/us/stat/41/1013).
