---
title: "§ 590z–11. Delegation of powers and duties by Secretary of the Interior"
identifier: "USC-T16-S590z–11"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section590z–11"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Dec. 19, 1941, ch. 595](/us/act/1941-12-19/ch595), [55 Stat. 842](/us/stat/55/842).)"
---
# § 590z–11. Delegation of powers and duties by Secretary of the Interior

##### § 590z–11. Delegation of powers and duties by Secretary of the Interior

For the purpose of facilitating and simplifying the administration of the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) and the Act of August 11, 1939 ([53 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/53/1418)), as amended [[16 U.S.C. 590y](/us/usc/t16/s590y) et seq.], the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to delegate, from time to time and to the extent and under such regulations as he deems proper, his powers and duties under said laws to the Commissioner of Reclamation, an Assistant Commissioner, or the officer in charge of any office, division, district, or project of the Bureau of Reclamation.

*([Dec. 19, 1941, ch. 595](/us/act/1941-12-19/ch595), [55 Stat. 842](/us/stat/55/842).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 17, 1902, referred to in text, is [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 371 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

Act of August 11, 1939, referred to in text, is [act Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 717](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch717), [53 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/53/1418), which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

This section was not enacted as part of [act Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 717](/us/act/1939-08-11/ch717), [53 Stat. 1418](/us/stat/53/1418), which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
