---
title: "§ 597. Riverton project, Wyoming"
identifier: "USC-T43-S597"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section597"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([June 5, 1920, ch. 235, § 1](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch235/s1), [41 Stat. 915](/us/stat/41/915); [Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161, § 1](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch161/s1), [41 Stat. 1404](/us/stat/41/1404).)"
---
# § 597. Riverton project, Wyoming

##### § 597. Riverton project, Wyoming

Lands within and in the vicinity of the ceded portion of the Wind River or Shoshone Reservation, and included in the Riverton project, Wyoming, shall be subject to all the charges, terms, conditions, provisions, and limitations of the Reclamation Act and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, and suitable provision shall be made by the Secretary of the Interior in fixing the charges to provide for reimbursement of the entire expenditure in accordance with the reclamation law and other laws applicable to said lands.

When any land on the project is opened to homestead entry under the terms of the “Reclamation Law,” the entryman shall pay to the United States for the lands the sum of $1.50 per acre as provided in section 2 of the Act approved March 3, 1905 (volume 33, Statutes at Large, page 1016), to be credited to the fund established by said Act of 1905, together with the proceeds from the sale of town sites established in said project under the “Reclamation Law”.

*([June 5, 1920, ch. 235, § 1](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch235/s1), [41 Stat. 915](/us/stat/41/915); [Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161, § 1](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch161/s1), [41 Stat. 1404](/us/stat/41/1404).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Reclamation Act and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, the reclamation law, and the “Reclamation Law”, referred to in text, probably mean [act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093), [32 Stat. 388](/us/stat/32/388), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto. See [act June 5, 1920, ch. 235](/us/act/1920-06-05/ch235), [41 Stat. 913](/us/stat/41/913), under the heading “reclamation service”, and [act Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161](/us/act/1921-03-04/ch161), [41 Stat. 1402](/us/stat/41/1402), under the heading “reclamation service”, which identify “the reclamation law”. Act June 17, 1902, popularly known as the Reclamation Act, is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of act June 17, 1902, to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

Act of March 3, 1905, referred to in text, is [act Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1452](/us/act/1905-03-03/ch1452), [33 Stat. 1016](/us/stat/33/1016), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

The first par. of this section is from part of the first section of act June 5, 1920. The second par. of this section is from a proviso in the first section of act Mar. 4, 1921. For classification of other provisions of these Acts, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Restoration of Lands to Public Domain

[Act Aug. 15, 1953, ch. 509, § 2](/us/act/1953-08-15/ch509/s2), [67 Stat. 612](/us/stat/67/612), provided that: “Subject only to the existing rights and interests which are not extinguished and terminated by this Act [[act Aug. 15, 1953, ch. 509](/us/act/1953-08-15/ch509), [67 Stat. 592](/us/stat/67/592)], all unentered and vacant lands within the area described in section 1 hereof [describing unentered and vacant lands of the Riverton reclamation project within the ceded portion of the Wind River Indian Reservation], are hereby restored to the public domain for administration, use, occupancy, and disposal under the reclamation and public land laws of the United States: *Provided*, That the sale or other disposition of such lands shall be at rates and upon terms and conditions approved by the Secretary of the Interior: *Provided further*, That the average price of all such lands disposed of by sale shall be not less than $6.25 per acre.”
