---
title: "§ 262r–2. Combined report on effect of pending multilateral development bank loans on environment, natural resources, public health, and indigenous peoples"
identifier: "USC-T22-S262r–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section262r–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVII, § 1703](/us/pl/95/118/tXVII/s1703), as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title V, § 541(a)](/us/pl/101/240/tV/s541/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2516](/us/stat/103/2516).)"
---
# § 262r–2. Combined report on effect of pending multilateral development bank loans on environment, natural resources, public health, and indigenous peoples

##### § 262r–2. Combined report on effect of pending multilateral development bank loans on environment, natural resources, public health, and indigenous peoples

Not later than April 1 and October 1 of each year, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, as a combined report, the reports required by [section 262m–2(c) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262m–2/c) and by section 262*l*–1(h)(2) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 95–118, title XVII, § 1703](/us/pl/95/118/tXVII/s1703), as added [Pub. L. 101–240, title V, § 541(a)](/us/pl/101/240/tV/s541/a), Dec. 19, 1989, [103 Stat. 2516](/us/stat/103/2516).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by [section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14](/us/pl/104/14/s1/a), set out as a note preceding [section 21 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s21), The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

#### Definitions

The definitions in [section 262r of this title](/us/usc/t22/s262r) apply to this section.
