---
title: "§ 2703. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T29-S2703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section2703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–382, title V, § 544](/us/pl/103/382/tV/s544), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 4053](/us/stat/108/4053).)"
---
# § 2703. Definitions

##### § 2703. Definitions

(1) Advanced workplace practices The term “advanced workplace practices” means innovations in work organization and performance, including high-performance workplace systems, flexible production techniques, quality programs, continuous improvement, concurrent engineering, close relationships between suppliers and customers, widely diffused decisionmaking and work teams, and effective integration of production technology, worker skills and training, and workplace organization, and such other characteristics as determined appropriate by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce.

(2) Advanced workplace technologies The term “advanced workplace technologies” includes—

(A) numerically controlled machine tools, robots, automated process control equipment, computerized flexible manufacturing systems, associated computer software, and other technology for improving the manufacturing and industrial production of goods and commercial services, which advance the state-of-the-art; or

(B) novel industrial and commercial techniques and processes not previously generally available that improve quality, productivity, and practices, including engineering design, quality assurance, concurrent engineering, continuous process production technology, inventory management, upgraded worker skills, communications with customers and suppliers, and promotion of sustainable economic growth.

(3) Department The term “Department” means the Department of Labor.

(4) Nonprofit organization The term “nonprofit organization” means a tax-exempt organization, as described in paragraph (3), (4), or (5) of [section 501(c) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c).

(5) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Labor.

(6) Worker organization The term “worker organization” means a labor organization within the meaning of [section 501(c)(5) of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s501/c/5).

*([Pub. L. 103–382, title V, § 544](/us/pl/103/382/tV/s544), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 4053](/us/stat/108/4053).)*
