---
title: "§ 5801. Findings and purpose"
identifier: "USC-T12-S5801"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section5801"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–103, div. U, § 102](/us/pl/117/103/dU/s102), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 825](/us/stat/136/825).)"
---
# § 5801. Findings and purpose

##### § 5801. Findings and purpose

(a) Findings Congress finds that—

(1) LIBOR is used as a benchmark rate in more than $200,000,000,000,000 worth of contracts worldwide;

(2) a significant number of existing contracts that reference LIBOR do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate when LIBOR is discontinued; and

(3) the cessation or nonrepresentativeness of LIBOR could result in disruptive litigation related to existing contracts that do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate.

(b) Purpose It is the purpose of this chapter—

(1) to establish a clear and uniform process, on a nationwide basis, for replacing LIBOR in existing contracts the terms of which do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate, without affecting the ability of parties to use any appropriate benchmark rate in new contracts;

(2) to preclude litigation related to existing contracts the terms of which do not provide for the use of a clearly defined or practicable replacement benchmark rate;

(3) to allow existing contracts that reference LIBOR but provide for the use of a clearly defined and practicable replacement rate, to operate according to their terms; and

(4) to address LIBOR references in Federal law.

*([Pub. L. 117–103, div. U, § 102](/us/pl/117/103/dU/s102), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 825](/us/stat/136/825).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “this division”, meaning div. U of [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 825](/us/stat/136/825), known as the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of div. U to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 117–103, div. U, § 101](/us/pl/117/103/dU/s101), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 825](/us/stat/136/825), provided that: “This division [enacting this chapter and amending [section 77ppp of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s77ppp), Commerce and Trade, and [section 1087–1 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1087–1), Education] may be cited as the ‘Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act’.”
