---
title: "§ 1800. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1800"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1800"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title V, § 568(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tV/s568/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 335](/us/stat/110/335), § 1798; renumbered § 1800, [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 584(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s584/a/1/A), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 634](/us/stat/113/634).)"
---
# § 1800. Definitions

##### § 1800. Definitions

(1) The term “military child development center” means a facility on a military installation (or on property under the jurisdiction of the commander of a military installation) at which child care services are provided for members of the armed forces or any other facility at which such child care services are provided that is operated by the Secretary of a military department.

(2) The term “family home day care” means home-based child care services that are provided for members of the armed forces by an individual who (A) is certified by the Secretary of the military department concerned as qualified to provide those services, and (B) provides those services on a regular basis for compensation.

(3) The term “child care employee” means a civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is employed to work in a military child development center (regardless of whether the employee is paid from appropriated funds or nonappropriated funds).

(4) The term “child care fee receipts” means those nonappropriated funds that are derived from fees paid by members of the armed forces for child care services provided at military child development centers.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title V, § 568(a)(1)](/us/pl/104/106/dA/tV/s568/a/1), Feb. 10, 1996, [110 Stat. 335](/us/stat/110/335), § 1798; renumbered § 1800, [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 584(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s584/a/1/A), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 634](/us/stat/113/634).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1999—[Pub. L. 106–65](/us/pl/106/65) renumbered [section 1798 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s1798) as this section.
