---
title: "§ 463. Rules and regulations"
identifier: "USC-T21-S463"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section463"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–172, § 14](/us/pl/85/172/s14), Aug. 28, 1957, [71 Stat. 447](/us/stat/71/447); [Pub. L. 90–492, § 13](/us/pl/90/492/s13), Aug. 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 803](/us/stat/82/803).)"
---
# § 463. Rules and regulations

##### § 463. Rules and regulations

(a) Storage and handling of poultry products; violation of regulations The Secretary may by regulations prescribe conditions under which poultry products capable of use as human food, shall be stored or otherwise handled by any person engaged in the business of buying, selling, freezing, storing, or transporting, in or for commerce, or importing, such articles, whenever the Secretary deems such action necessary to assure that such articles will not be adulterated or misbranded when delivered to the consumer. Violation of any such regulation is prohibited.

(b) Other necessary rules and regulations The Secretary shall promulgate such other rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

(c) Oral presentation of views In applying the provisions of [section 553(c) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553/c) to proposed rule making under this chapter, an opportunity for the oral presentation of views shall be accorded all interested persons.

*([Pub. L. 85–172, § 14](/us/pl/85/172/s14), Aug. 28, 1957, [71 Stat. 447](/us/stat/71/447); [Pub. L. 90–492, § 13](/us/pl/90/492/s13), Aug. 18, 1968, [82 Stat. 803](/us/stat/82/803).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1968—[Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492) designated existing provisions as par. (b), added pars. (a) and (c), and in par. (b), as so designated, substituted “such other rules” for “such rules”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492) effective Aug. 18, 1968, see [section 20 of Pub. L. 90–492](/us/pl/90/492/s20), set out as a note under [section 451 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s451).
