---
title: "§ 16455. Affiliate transactions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16455"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16455"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1267](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1267), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 976](/us/stat/119/976).)"
---
# § 16455. Affiliate transactions

##### § 16455. Affiliate transactions

(a) Commission authority unaffected Nothing in this part shall limit the authority of the Commission under the Federal Power Act ([16 U.S.C. 791a](/us/usc/t16/s791a) et seq.) to require that jurisdictional rates are just and reasonable, including the ability to deny or approve the pass through of costs, the prevention of cross-subsidization, and the issuance of such rules and regulations as are necessary or appropriate for the protection of utility consumers.

(b) Recovery of costs Nothing in this part shall preclude the Commission or a State commission from exercising its jurisdiction under otherwise applicable law to determine whether a public-utility company, public utility, or natural gas company may recover in rates any costs of an activity performed by an associate company, or any costs of goods or services acquired by such public-utility company from an associate company.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title XII, § 1267](/us/pl/109/58/tXII/s1267), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 976](/us/stat/119/976).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This part, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle F (§§ 1261–1277) of title XII of [Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 972](/us/stat/119/972), which enacted this part, amended sections 824 and 824m of Title 16, Conservation, repealed chapter 2C (§ 79 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and [section 825q of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s825q), and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 15801 and 16451 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle F to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 15801 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15801) and Tables.

The Federal Power Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act June 10, 1920, ch. 285](/us/act/1920-06-10/ch285), [41 Stat. 1063](/us/stat/41/1063), which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 791a et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 791a of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s791a) and Tables.
