---
title: "§ 12124. Correctional job training and placement"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12124"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12124"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20418](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20418), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/108/1835).)"
---
# § 12124. Correctional job training and placement

##### § 12124. Correctional job training and placement

(a) Purpose It is the purpose of this section to encourage and support job training programs, and job placement programs, that provide services to incarcerated persons or ex-offenders.

(b) Definitions As used in this section:

(1) Correctional institution The term “correctional institution” means any prison, jail, reformatory, work farm, detention center, or halfway house, or any other similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.

(2) Correctional job training or placement program The term “correctional job training or placement program” means an activity that provides job training or job placement services to incarcerated persons or ex-offenders, or that assists incarcerated persons or ex-offenders in obtaining such services.

(3) Ex-offender The term “ex-offender” means any individual who has been sentenced to a term of probation by a Federal or State court, or who has been released from a Federal, State, or local correctional institution.

(4) Incarcerated person The term “incarcerated person” means any individual incarcerated in a Federal or State correctional institution who is charged with or convicted of any criminal offense.

(c) Establishment of Office

(1) In general The Attorney General shall establish within the Department of Justice an Office of Correctional Job Training and Placement. The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Attorney General.

(2) Timing The Attorney General shall carry out this subsection not later than 6 months after September 13, 1994.

(d) Functions of Office The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office of Correctional Job Training and Placement, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall—

(1) assist in coordinating the activities of the Federal Bonding Program of the Department of Labor, the activities of the Department of Labor related to the certification of eligibility for targeted jobs credits under [section 51 of title 26](/us/usc/t26/s51) with respect to ex-offenders, and any other correctional job training or placement program of the Department of Justice or Department of Labor;

(2) provide technical assistance to State and local employment and training agencies that—

(A) receive financial assistance under this Act; or

(B) receive financial assistance through other programs carried out by the Department of Justice or Department of Labor, for activities related to the development of employability;

(3) prepare and implement the use of special staff training materials, and methods, for developing the staff competencies needed by State and local agencies to assist incarcerated persons and ex-offenders in gaining marketable occupational skills and job placement;

(4) prepare and submit to Congress an annual report on the activities of the Office of Correctional Job Training and Placement, and the status of correctional job training or placement programs in the United States;

(5) cooperate with other Federal agencies carrying out correctional job training or placement programs to ensure coordination of such programs throughout the United States;

(6) consult with, and provide outreach to—

(A) State job training coordinating councils, administrative entities, and private industry councils, with respect to programs carried out under this Act; and

(B) other State and local officials, with respect to other employment or training programs carried out by the Department of Justice or Department of Labor;

(7) collect from States information on the training accomplishments and employment outcomes of a sample of incarcerated persons and ex-offenders who were served by employment or training programs carried out, or that receive financial assistance through programs carried out, by the Department of Justice or Department of Labor; and

(8)

(A) collect from States and local governments information on the development and implementation of correctional job training or placement programs; and

(B) disseminate such information, as appropriate.

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title II, § 20418](/us/pl/103/322/tII/s20418), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1835](/us/stat/108/1835).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(A), (6)(A), is [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/108/1796), known as the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13725 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13725), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
