---
title: "§ 1713. Priority of remedies"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 214](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s214), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 517](/us/stat/88/517).)"
---
# § 1713. Priority of remedies

##### § 1713. Priority of remedies

(a) assigning students to the schools closest to their places of residence which provide the appropriate grade level and type of education for such students, taking into account school capacities and natural physical barriers;

(b) assigning students to the schools closest to their places of residence which provide the appropriate grade level and type of education for such students, taking into account only school capacities;

(c) permitting students to transfer from a school in which a majority of the students are of their race, color, or national origin to a school in which a minority of the students are of their race, color, or national origin;

(d) the creation or revision of attendance zones or grade structures without requiring transportation beyond that described in [section 1714 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1714);

(e) the construction of new schools or the closing of inferior schools;

(f) the construction or establishment of magnet schools; or

(g) the development and implementation of any other plan which is educationally sound and administratively feasible, subject to the provisions of sections 1714 and 1715 of this title.

*([Pub. L. 93–380, title II, § 214](/us/pl/93/380/tII/s214), Aug. 21, 1974, [88 Stat. 517](/us/stat/88/517).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on and after sixtieth day after Aug. 21, 1974, see [section 2(c) of Pub. L. 93–380](/us/pl/93/380/s2/c), set out as a note under [section 1221–1 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1221–1).
