---
title: "§ 6907. State legislation requiring reallocation or redistribution of payments to smaller units of general purpose government"
identifier: "USC-T31-S6907"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section6907"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 98–63, title I](/us/pl/98/63/tI), July 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 324](/us/stat/97/324); amended [Pub. L. 103–272, § 4(f)(1)(U)(ii)](/us/pl/103/272/s4/f/1/U/ii), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/108/1362).)"
---
# § 6907. State legislation requiring reallocation or redistribution of payments to smaller units of general purpose government

##### § 6907. State legislation requiring reallocation or redistribution of payments to smaller units of general purpose government

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a State may enact legislation which requires that any payments which would be made to units of general local government pursuant to this chapter be reallocated and redistributed in whole or part to other smaller units of general purpose government which (1) are located within the boundaries of the larger unit of general local government, (2) provide general governmental services and (3) contain entitlement lands within their boundaries. Such reallocation or redistribution shall generally reflect the level of services provided by, and the number of entitlement acres within, the smaller unit of general local government.

(b) Upon enactment of legislation by a State, described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall make one payment to such State equaling the aggregate amount of payments which he otherwise would have made to units of general local government within such State pursuant to this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of such State to make any further distribution of the payment pursuant to subsection (a). Such redistribution shall be made within 30 days after receipt of such payment. No payment, or portion thereof, made by the Secretary shall be used by any State for the administration of this subsection or subsection (a).

(c) Appropriations made for payments in lieu of taxes for a fiscal year may be used to correct underpayments in the previous fiscal year to achieve equity among all qualified recipients.

*(Added [Pub. L. 98–63, title I](/us/pl/98/63/tI), July 30, 1983, [97 Stat. 324](/us/stat/97/324); amended [Pub. L. 103–272, § 4(f)(1)(U)(ii)](/us/pl/103/272/s4/f/1/U/ii), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1362](/us/stat/108/1362).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–272](/us/pl/103/272) inserted section catchline.
