---
title: "§ 3401. Statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T25-S3401"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section3401"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–477, § 2](/us/pl/102/477/s2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2302](/us/stat/106/2302); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 3](/us/pl/115/93/s3), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/131/2026).)"
---
# § 3401. Statement of purpose

##### § 3401. Statement of purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the ability of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to integrate the employment, training and related services they provide from diverse Federal sources in order to improve the effectiveness of those services, reduce joblessness in Indian communities, and serve tribally determined goals consistent with the policy of self-determination, while reducing administrative, reporting, and accounting costs.

*([Pub. L. 102–477, § 2](/us/pl/102/477/s2), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2302](/us/stat/106/2302); [Pub. L. 115–93, § 3](/us/pl/115/93/s3), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/131/2026).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2017—[Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93) substituted “The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the ability of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to” for “The purposes of this chapter are to demonstrate how Indian tribal governments can” and “, and serve tribally determined” for “and serve tribally-determined” and inserted “from diverse Federal sources” after “they provide” and “, while reducing administrative, reporting, and accounting costs” after “self-determination”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title of 2017 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–93, § 1](/us/pl/115/93/s1), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/131/2026), provided that: “This Act [amending this section and sections 3402 to 3407, 3409 to 3413, 3416, and 3417 of this title, repealing sections 3414 and 3415 of this title, and enacting and amending provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Consolidation Act of 2017’.”

#### Short Title of 2000 Amendment

[Pub. L. 106–568, title XI, § 1101](/us/pl/106/568/tXI/s1101), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2930](/us/stat/114/2930), provided that: “This title [amending sections 3402, 3404, and 3406 to 3408 of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act Amendments of 2000’.”

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 102–477, § 1](/us/pl/102/477/s1), Oct. 23, 1992, [106 Stat. 2302](/us/stat/106/2302), as amended by [Pub. L. 115–93, § 2(a)](/us/pl/115/93/s2/a), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/131/2026), provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Act of 1992’.”

#### Effect of [Pub. L. 115–93](/us/pl/115/93)

[Pub. L. 115–93, § 17](/us/pl/115/93/s17), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2037](/us/stat/131/2037), provided that: “Nothing in this Act [see Short Title of 2017 Amendment note above] or any amendment made by this Act— “(1) affects any plan approved under the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Act of 1992 ([25 U.S.C. 3401](/us/usc/t25/s3401) et seq.) (as so redesignated) before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2017]; “(2) requires any Indian tribe or tribal organization to resubmit a plan described in paragraph (1); or “(3) modifies the effective period of any plan described in paragraph (1).”

#### References

[Pub. L. 115–93, § 2(b)](/us/pl/115/93/s2/b), Dec. 18, 2017, [131 Stat. 2026](/us/stat/131/2026), provided that: “Any reference in law to the ‘Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992’ shall be deemed to be a reference to the ‘Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Act of 1992’.”

#### Congressional Findings and Purposes

[Pub. L. 106–568, title XI, § 1102](/us/pl/106/568/tXI/s1102), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2931](/us/stat/114/2931), provided that: “(a) Findings.—The Congress finds that—“(1) [sic] Indian tribes and Alaska Native organizations that have participated in carrying out programs under the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 [now Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Act of 1992] ([25 U.S.C. 3401](/us/usc/t25/s3401) et seq.) have—“(A) improved the effectiveness of employment-related services provided by those tribes and organizations to their members; “(B) enabled more Indian and Alaska Native people to prepare for and secure employment; “(C) assisted in transitioning tribal members from welfare to work; and “(D) otherwise demonstrated the value of integrating employment, training, education and related services. [sic] “(E) the initiatives under the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 should be strengthened by ensuring that all Federal programs that emphasize the value of work may be included within a demonstration program of an Indian or Alaska Native organization; and “(F) the initiatives under the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 should have the benefit of the support and attention of the officials with policymaking authority of—“(i) the Department of the Interior; or “(ii) other Federal agencies that administer programs covered by the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992. “(b) Purposes.—The purposes of this title [see Short Title of 2000 Amendment note above] are to demonstrate how Indian tribal governments can integrate the employment, training, and related services they provide in order to improve the effectiveness of those services, reduce joblessness in Indian communities, foster economic development on Indian lands, and serve tribally-determined goals consistent with the policies of self-determination and self-governance.”

#### Report on Expanding Opportunities for Program Integration

[Pub. L. 106–568, title XI, § 1104](/us/pl/106/568/tXI/s1104), Dec. 27, 2000, [114 Stat. 2932](/us/stat/114/2932), provided that not later than 1 year after Dec. 27, 2000, the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the tribes and organizations participating in the integration initiative under title XI of [Pub. L. 106–568](/us/pl/106/568) (see Short Title of 2000 Amendment note above) would submit a report to Congress on the opportunities for expanding the integration of human resource development and economic development programs under such title, and the feasibility of establishing Joint Funding Agreements to authorize tribes to access and coordinate funds and resources from various agencies for human resources development, physical infrastructure development, and economic development assistance.
