---
title: "§ 1406b. Expenses of uncompensated advisers serving United States Housing Authority away from home"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1406b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1406b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([May 10, 1939, ch. 119, § 1](/us/act/1939-05-10/ch119/s1), [53 Stat. 690](/us/stat/53/690).)"
---
# § 1406b. Expenses of uncompensated advisers serving United States Housing Authority away from home

##### § 1406b. Expenses of uncompensated advisers serving United States Housing Authority away from home

On and after May 10, 1939, the funds made available for administrative expenses of the United States Housing Authority shall be available for the payment, when specifically authorized by the Administrator, of actual transportation expenses and not to exceed $10 per diem in lieu of subsistence and other expenses to persons serving, while away from their homes, without other compensation from the United States, in an advisory capacity to the Authority.

*([May 10, 1939, ch. 119, § 1](/us/act/1939-05-10/ch119/s1), [53 Stat. 690](/us/stat/53/690).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the United States Housing Act of 1937 which comprises this chapter.

#### Prior Provisions

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [act June 25, 1938, ch. 681, title I](/us/act/1938-06-25/ch681/tI), [52 Stat. 1128](/us/stat/52/1128).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries; Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

The United States Housing Authority was consolidated with other agencies into the Housing and Home Finance Agency, and name of Authority changed to Public Housing Administration by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1947, eff. July 27, 1947, 12 F.R. 4981, [61 Stat. 954](/us/stat/61/954), set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Functions of Public Housing Administration and Housing and Home Finance Agency (of which Public Housing Administration was a constituent agency) and of heads thereof transferred to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669), which is classified to [section 3534(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3534/a). Section 9(c) of such act, set out as a note under [section 3531 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3531), provided that references to Housing and Home Finance Agency or to any agency or officer therein are to be deemed to mean Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and that Housing and Home Finance Agency and Public Housing Administration have lapsed.
