---
title: "§ 922. Payment of benefits"
identifier: "USC-T30-S922"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section922"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–173, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/91/173/tIV/s412), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 794](/us/stat/83/794); [Pub. L. 92–303](/us/pl/92/303), §§ 1(b)(1), (2), (c)(1), 2(a), May 19, 1972, [86 Stat. 150](/us/stat/86/150), 151, 153; [Pub. L. 95–239](/us/pl/95/239), §§ 3(b)(1), 4, Mar. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 96](/us/stat/92/96), 97; [Pub. L. 97–119, title II, § 203(a)(1)](/us/pl/97/119/tII/s203/a/1)–(3), (d), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1643](/us/stat/95/1643), 1644; [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2),"
---
# § 922. Payment of benefits

##### § 922. Payment of benefits

(a) Schedules Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, benefit payments shall be made by the Secretary under this part as follows:

(1) In the case of total disability of a miner due to pneumoconiosis, the disabled miner shall be paid benefits during the disability at a rate equal to 37½ per centum of the monthly pay rate for Federal employees in grade GS–2, step 1.

(2) In the case of death of a miner due to pneumoconiosis or, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, of a miner receiving benefits under this part, benefits shall be paid to his widow (if any) at the rate the deceased miner would receive such benefits if he were totally disabled.

(3) In the case of the child or children of a miner whose death is due to pneumoconiosis or, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, of a miner who is receiving benefits under this part at the time of his death or who was totally disabled by pneumoconiosis at the time of his death, in the case of the child or children of a widow who is receiving benefits under this part at the time of her death, and in the case of any child or children entitled to the payment of benefits under paragraph (5) of [section 921(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s921/c), benefits shall be paid to such child or children as follows: If there is one such child, he shall be paid benefits at the rate specified in paragraph (1). If there is more than one such child, the benefits paid shall be divided equally among them and shall be paid at a rate equal to the rate specified in paragraph (1), increased by 50 per centum of such rate if there are two such children, by 75 per centum of such rate if there are three such children, and by 100 per centum of such rate if there are more than three such children: *Provided*, That benefits shall only be paid to a child for so long as he meets the criteria for the term “child” contained in [section 902(g) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s902/g): *And provided further*, That no entitlement to benefits as a child shall be established under this paragraph (3) for any month for which entitlement to benefits as a widow is established under paragraph (2).

(4) In the case of an individual entitled to benefit payments under clause (1) or (2) of this subsection who has one or more dependents, the benefit payments shall be increased at the rate of 50 per centum of such benefit payments, if such individual has one dependent, 75 per centum if such individual has two dependents, and 100 per centum if such individual has three or more dependents.

(5) In the case of the dependent parent or parents of a miner whose death is due to pneumoconiosis, or, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, of a miner who is receiving benefits under this part at the time of his death or who was totally disabled by pneumoconiosis at the time of death, and who is not survived at the time of his death by a widow or a child, in the case of the dependent surviving brother(s) or sister(s) of such a miner who is not survived at the time of his death by a widow, child, or parent, in the case of the dependent parent or parents of a miner (who is not survived at the time of his or her death by a widow or a child) who are entitled to the payment of benefits under paragraph (5) of [section 921(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s921/c), or in the case of the dependent surviving brother(s) or sister(s) of a miner (who is not survived at the time of his or her death by a widow, child, or parent) who are entitled to the payment of benefits under paragraph (5) of [section 921(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s921/c), benefits shall be paid under this part to such parent(s), or to such brother(s), or sister(s), at the rate specified in paragraph (3) (as if such parent(s) or such brother(s) or sister(s), were the children of such miner). In determining for purposes of this paragraph whether a claimant bears the relationship as the miner’s parent, brother, or sister, the Secretary shall apply legal standards consistent with those applicable to relationship determination under title II of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 401](/us/usc/t42/s401) et seq.]. No benefits to a sister or brother shall be payable under this paragraph for any month beginning with the month in which he or she receives support from his or her spouse, or marries. Benefits shall be payable under this paragraph to a brother only if he is—

(6) If an individual’s benefits would be increased under paragraph (4) of this subsection because he or she has one or more dependents, and it appears to the Secretary that it would be in the interest of any such dependent to have the amount of such increase in benefits (to the extent attributable to such dependent) certified to a person other than such individual, then the Secretary may, under regulations prescribed by him, certify the amount of such increase in benefits (to the extent so attributable) not to such individual but directly to such dependent or to another person for the use and benefit of such dependent; and any payment made under this clause, if otherwise valid under this subchapter, shall be a complete settlement and satisfaction of all claims, rights, and interests in and to such payment.

(b) Reduction of benefits Notwithstanding subsection (a), benefit payments under this section to a miner or his widow, child, parent, brother, or sister shall be reduced, on a monthly or other appropriate basis, by an amount equal to any payment received by such miner or his widow, child, parent, brother, or sister under the workmen’s compensation, unemployment compensation, or disability insurance laws of his State on account of the disability of such miner due to pneumoconiosis, and the amount by which such payment would be reduced on account of excess earnings of such miner under section 203(b) through (*l*) of the Social Security Act [[42 U.S.C. 403(b)](/us/usc/t42/s403/b) to (*l*)] if the amount paid were a benefit payable under section 202 of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 402](/us/usc/t42/s402)]. This part shall not be considered a workmen’s compensation law or plan for purposes of section 224 of such Act [[42 U.S.C. 424a](/us/usc/t42/s424a)].

(c) Reporting of income Benefits payable under this part shall be deemed not to be income for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

*([Pub. L. 91–173, title IV, § 412](/us/pl/91/173/tIV/s412), Dec. 30, 1969, [83 Stat. 794](/us/stat/83/794); [Pub. L. 92–303](/us/pl/92/303), §§ 1(b)(1), (2), (c)(1), 2(a), May 19, 1972, [86 Stat. 150](/us/stat/86/150), 151, 153; [Pub. L. 95–239](/us/pl/95/239), §§ 3(b)(1), 4, Mar. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 96](/us/stat/92/96), 97; [Pub. L. 97–119, title II, § 203(a)(1)](/us/pl/97/119/tII/s203/a/1)–(3), (d), Dec. 29, 1981, [95 Stat. 1643](/us/stat/95/1643), 1644; [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095); [Pub. L. 103–296, title I, § 108(i)(2)](/us/pl/103/296/tI/s108/i/2), Aug. 15, 1994, [108 Stat. 1488](/us/stat/108/1488); [Pub. L. 107–275, § 2(a)](/us/pl/107/275/s2/a), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1925](/us/stat/116/1925).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Grade GS–2, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is contained in the General Schedule which is set out under [section 5332 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332), Government Organization and Employees.

The effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), (3), and (5), is Jan. 1, 1982, except as otherwise provided. See [section 206(a) of Pub. L. 97–119](/us/pl/97/119/s206/a), set out as an Effective Date of 1981 Amendment note under [section 901 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s901).

The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), [49 Stat. 620](/us/stat/49/620). Title II of that Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 401 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1305 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s1305) and Tables.

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (c), is classified to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–275](/us/pl/107/275) substituted “Secretary” for “Commissioner of Social Security” wherever appearing.

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) substituted “Commissioner of Social Security” for “Secretary” wherever appearing.

1986—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”.

1981—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 97–119, § 203(d)](/us/pl/97/119/s203/d), substituted “37½ per centum of the monthly pay rate for Federal employees in grade GS–2, step 1” for “50 per centum of the minimum monthly payment to which a Federal employee in grade GS–2, who is totally disabled, is entitled at the time of payment under chapter 81 of title 5”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 97–119, § 203(a)(1)](/us/pl/97/119/s203/a/1), inserted “, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Amendments of 1981,” after “pneumoconiosis or”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 97–119, § 203(a)(2)](/us/pl/97/119/s203/a/2), inserted “, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981,” after “pneumoconiosis or” and substituted “time of his death or” for “time of his death, or”.

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 97–119, § 203(a)(3)](/us/pl/97/119/s203/a/3), inserted “, except with respect to a claim filed under part C of this subchapter on or after the effective date of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981,” after “pneumoconiosis, or” and substituted “time of his death or who was totally” for “time of his death, or of a miner who was totally”.

1978—Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 95–239, § 3(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/95/239/s3/b/1/A), inserted reference to any child or children entitled to the payment of benefits under paragraph (5) of [section 921(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s921/c).

Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 95–239, § 3(b)(1)(B)](/us/pl/95/239/s3/b/1/B), inserted references to the payment of benefits under par. (5) of [section 921(c) of this title](/us/usc/t30/s921/c).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 95–239, § 4](/us/pl/95/239/s4), substituted “on account of the disability of such miner due to pneumoconiosis” for “on account of the disability of such miner”.

1972—Subsec. (a)(3), (4). [Pub. L. 92–303, § 1(b)(1)](/us/pl/92/303/s1/b/1), added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as par. (4).

Subsec. (a)(5), (6). [Pub. L. 92–303, § 1(b)(2)](/us/pl/92/303/s1/b/2), added pars. (5) and (6).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 92–303](/us/pl/92/303), §§ 1(c)(1), 2(a), substituted “widow, child, parent, brother, or sister” for “widow” wherever appearing, and inserted provision that this part would not be considered as a workmen’s compensation law or plan for purposes of section 224 of such Act.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–275](/us/pl/107/275) effective 90 days after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–275](/us/pl/107/275/s4), set out as a note under [section 902 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s902).

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296) effective Mar. 31, 1995, see [section 110(a) of Pub. L. 103–296](/us/pl/103/296/s110/a), set out as a note under [section 401 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s401), The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 97–119](/us/pl/97/119) effective Jan. 1, 1982, except as otherwise provided, see [section 206(a) of Pub. L. 97–119](/us/pl/97/119/s206/a), set out as a note under [section 901 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s901).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–239](/us/pl/95/239) effective Mar. 1, 1978, see [section 20(a) of Pub. L. 95–239](/us/pl/95/239/s20/a), set out as a note under [section 901 of this title](/us/usc/t30/s901).

#### Effective Date of 1972 Amendment

[Pub. L. 92–303, § 2(b)](/us/pl/92/303/s2/b), May 19, 1972, [86 Stat. 153](/us/stat/86/153), provided that: “The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall be effective as of December 30, 1969.”

#### Calculation of Monthly Benefit Payments

[Pub. L. 103–333, title V, § 512](/us/pl/103/333/tV/s512), Sept. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 2573](/us/stat/108/2573), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, monthly benefit rates during fiscal year 1995 and thereafter under part B or part C of the Black Lung Benefits Act [[30 U.S.C. 921](/us/usc/t30/s921) et seq., 931 et seq.] shall continue to be based on the benefit rates in effect in September, 1994 and be paid in accordance with the Act, until exceeded by the benefit rate specified in section 412(a)(1) of the Act [[30 U.S.C. 922(a)(1)](/us/usc/t30/s922/a/1)].”

[Pub. L. 103–112, title V, § 508(a)](/us/pl/103/112/tV/s508/a), Oct. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 1113](/us/stat/107/1113), provided that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, monthly benefit payments under part B or part C of the Black Lung Benefits Act [[30 U.S.C. 921](/us/usc/t30/s921) et seq., 931 et seq.] for months after December 1993 and before October 1994 shall be calculated as though the provisions of Federal law prescribing pay rates for Federal employees continued in effect, without amendment to or limitation of such provisions, after January 1993.”
