---
title: "§ 5822. Business and Agriculture Advisory Council"
identifier: "USC-T22-S5822"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section5822"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–511, title III, § 302](/us/pl/102/511/tIII/s302), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3333](/us/stat/106/3333).)"
---
# § 5822. Business and Agriculture Advisory Council

##### § 5822. Business and Agriculture Advisory Council

(a) Establishment The President is authorized to establish an advisory council to be known as the Independent States Business and Agriculture Advisory Council (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Council”)—

(1) to consult with and advise the President periodically regarding programs of assistance for the independent states of the former Soviet Union; and

(2) to evaluate, and consult periodically with the President regarding, the adequacy of bilateral and multilateral assistance programs that would facilitate exports by United States companies to, and investments by United States companies in, the independent states.

(b) Membership The Council should consist of 15 members, appointed by the President, who are drawn from United States companies reflecting diverse businesses and perspectives that have experience and expertise in dealing with the independent states of the former Soviet Union. The President should designate one such member to serve as Chair of the Council. Five such members should be appointed upon the recommendation of the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives and 5 should be appointed upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the Senate. Members of the Council shall receive no compensation from the United States Government by reason of their service on the Council.

(c) Staff Upon request of the Chair of the Council, the head of any United States Government agency may detail, on a nonreimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Council to assist the Council.

*([Pub. L. 102–511, title III, § 302](/us/pl/102/511/tIII/s302), Oct. 24, 1992, [106 Stat. 3333](/us/stat/106/3333).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Advisory Councils

Advisory councils established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
