---
title: "§ 6654. Payment of expenses of the Chaplain of the Senate from the contingent fund of the Senate"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6654"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6654"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–199, div. H, § 155](/us/pl/108/199/dH/s155), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 450](/us/stat/118/450).)"
---
# § 6654. Payment of expenses of the Chaplain of the Senate from the contingent fund of the Senate

##### § 6654. Payment of expenses of the Chaplain of the Senate from the contingent fund of the Senate

(a) In general For each fiscal year there is authorized to be expended from the contingent fund of the Senate an amount, not in excess of $50,000 for the Chaplain of the Senate. Payments under this section shall be made only for expenses actually incurred by the Chaplain of the Senate in carrying out his functions, and shall be made upon certification and documentation of the expenses involved, by the Chaplain claiming payment under this section and upon vouchers approved by the Chaplain and by the Committee on Rules and Administration. Funds authorized for expenditure under this section may be used to purchase food or food related items.

(b) Repeal of Revolving Fund

(1) Omitted

(2) Remaining funds Any funds in the Chaplain Expense Revolving Fund on the date of the repeal under this section shall be remitted to the general fund of the United States Treasury.

(c) Effective date This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2004, and each fiscal year thereafter.

*([Pub. L. 108–199, div. H, § 155](/us/pl/108/199/dH/s155), Jan. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 450](/us/stat/118/450).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 61d–4 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61d–4) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is comprised of [section 155 of div. H of Pub. L. 108–199](/us/pl/108/199/dH/s155). Subsec. (b)(1) of [section 155 of Pub. L. 108–199](/us/pl/108/199/s155) repealed [section 61d–3 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s61d–3).

Section is from the Miscellaneous Appropriations and Offsets Act, 2004, which is division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004.
