---
title: "§ 20501. National coordination of AMBER Alert communications network"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 301](/us/pl/108/21/tIII/s301), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 660](/us/stat/117/660); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title C, § 10001(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tC/s10001/a/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4860](/us/stat/134/4860).)"
---
# § 20501. National coordination of AMBER Alert communications network

##### § 20501. National coordination of AMBER Alert communications network

(a) Coordination within Department of Justice The Attorney General shall assign an officer of the Department of Justice to act as the national coordinator of the AMBER Alert communications network regarding abducted children. The officer so designated shall be known as the AMBER Alert Coordinator of the Department of Justice.

(b) Duties In acting as the national coordinator of the AMBER Alert communications network, the Coordinator shall—

(1) seek to eliminate gaps in the network, including gaps in areas of interstate travel (including airports, maritime ports, border crossing areas and checkpoints, and ports of exit from the United States);

(2) work with States, territories of the United States, and tribal governments to encourage the development of additional elements (known as local AMBER plans) in the network;

(3) work with States, territories of the United States, and tribal governments to ensure appropriate regional coordination of various elements of the network; and

(4) act as the nationwide point of contact for—

(A) the development of the network; and

(B) regional coordination of alerts on abducted children through the network.

(c) Consultation with Federal Bureau of Investigation In carrying out duties under subsection (b), the Coordinator shall notify and consult with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation concerning each child abduction for which an alert is issued through the AMBER Alert communications network.

(d) Cooperation The Coordinator shall cooperate with the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Federal Communications Commission in carrying out activities under this section.

(e) Report Not later than March 1, 2005, the Coordinator shall submit to Congress a report on the activities of the Coordinator and the effectiveness and status of the AMBER plans of each State that has implemented such a plan. The Coordinator shall prepare the report in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation.

*([Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 301](/us/pl/108/21/tIII/s301), Apr. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 660](/us/stat/117/660); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. H, title C, § 10001(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dH/tC/s10001/a/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4860](/us/stat/134/4860).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5791 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5791), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(a)(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/a/1/A/i), inserted “(including airports, maritime ports, border crossing areas and checkpoints, and ports of exit from the United States)” after “gaps in areas of interstate travel”.

Subsec. (b)(2), (3). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(a)(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/a/1/A/ii), inserted “, territories of the United States, and tribal governments” after “States”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 10001(a)(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s10001/a/1/B), inserted “, the Secretary of Homeland Security,” after “Secretary of Transportation”.
