---
title: "§ 3206. Statewide cultural assistance program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3206"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3206"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–487, title XIII, § 1318](/us/pl/96/487/tXIII/s1318), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2486](/us/stat/94/2486).)"
---
# § 3206. Statewide cultural assistance program

##### § 3206. Statewide cultural assistance program

In furtherance of the national policy set forth in [section 320101 of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s320101), and in furtherance of the need to protect and interpret for the public benefit cultural and archeological resources and objects of national significance relating to prehistoric and historic human use and occupation of lands and waters in Alaska, the Secretary may, upon the application of a Native Corporation or Native Group, provide advice, assistance, and technical expertise to the applicant in the preservation, display, and interpretation of cultural resources, without regard as to whether title to such resources is in the United States. Such assistance may include making available personnel to assist in the planning, design, and operation of buildings, facilities, and interpretive displays for the public and personnel to train individuals in the identification, recovery, preservation, demonstration, and management of cultural resources.

*([Pub. L. 96–487, title XIII, § 1318](/us/pl/96/487/tXIII/s1318), Dec. 2, 1980, [94 Stat. 2486](/us/stat/94/2486).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In text, “[section 320101 of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s320101)” substituted for “the first section of the Act entitled ‘An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes’, approved August 21, 1935 ([49 Stat. 666](/us/stat/49/666))” on authority of [Pub. L. 113–287, § 6(e)](/us/pl/113/287/s6/e), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/128/3272), which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.
