---
title: "§ 812. Schedules of controlled substances"
identifier: "USC-T21-S812"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section812"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 202](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s202), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/84/1247); [Pub. L. 95–633, title I, § 103](/us/pl/95/633/tI/s103), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3772](/us/stat/92/3772); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II](/us/pl/98/473/tII), §§ 507(c), 509(b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2071](/us/stat/98/2071), 2072; [Pub. L. 99–570, title I, § 1867](/us/pl/99/570/tI/s1867), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–55](/us/stat/100/3207-55); [Pub. L. 99–646, § 84](/us/pl/99/646/s84), N"
---
# § 812. Schedules of controlled substances

##### § 812. Schedules of controlled substances

(a) Establishment There are established five schedules of controlled substances, to be known as schedules I, II, III, IV, and V. Such schedules shall initially consist of the substances listed in this section. The schedules established by this section shall be updated and republished on a semiannual basis during the two-year period beginning one year after October 27, 1970, and shall be updated and republished on an annual basis thereafter.11 See Amendment of Schedules of Controlled Substances note below.

(b) Placement on schedules; findings required Except where control is required by United States obligations under an international treaty, convention, or protocol, in effect on October 27, 1970, and except in the case of an immediate precursor, a drug or other substance may not be placed in any schedule unless the findings required for such schedule are made with respect to such drug or other substance. The findings required for each of the schedules are as follows:

(1) Schedule I.—

(A) The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse.

(B) The drug or other substance has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.

(C) There is a lack of accepted safety for use of the drug or other substance under medical supervision.

(2) Schedule II.—

(A) The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse.

(B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States or a currently accepted medical use with severe restrictions.

(C) Abuse of the drug or other substances may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence.

(3) Schedule III.—

(A) The drug or other substance has a potential for abuse less than the drugs or other substances in schedules I and II.

(B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.

(C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to moderate or low physical dependence or high psychological dependence.

(4) Schedule IV.—

(A) The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.

(B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.

(C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III.

(5) Schedule V.—

(A) The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule IV.

(B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.

(C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule IV.

(c) Initial schedules of controlled substances Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V shall, unless and until amended pursuant to [section 811 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s811), consist of the following drugs or other substances,^1 by whatever official name, common or usual name, chemical name, or brand name designated:

(a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters, and ethers, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation:

(1) Acetylmethadol.

(2) Allylprodine.

(3) Alphacetylmathadol.22 So in original. Probably should be “Alphacetylmethadol.”

(4) Alphameprodine.

(5) Alphamethadol.

(6) Benzethidine.

(7) Betacetylmethadol.

(8) Betameprodine.

(9) Betamethadol.

(10) Betaprodine.

(11) Clonitazene.

(12) Dextromoramide.

(13) Dextrorphan.

(14) Diampromide.

(15) Diethylthiambutene.

(16) Dimenoxadol.

(17) Dimepheptanol.

(18) Dimethylthiambutene.

(19) Dioxaphetyl butyrate.

(20) Dipipanone.

(21) Ethylmethylthiambutene.

(22) Etonitazene.

(23) Etoxeridine.

(24) Furethidine.

(25) Hydroxypethidine.

(26) Ketobemidone.

(27) Levomoramide.

(28) Levophenacylmorphan.

(29) Morpheridine.

(30) Noracymethadol.

(31) Norlevorphanol.

(32) Normethadone.

(33) Norpipanone.

(34) Phenadoxone.

(35) Phenampromide.

(36) Phenomorphan.

(37) Phenoperidine.

(38) Piritramide.

(39) Proheptazine.

(40) Properidine.

(41) Racemoramide.

(42) Trimeperidine.

(b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opium derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation:

(1) Acetorphine.

(2) Acetyldihydrocodeine.

(3) Benzylmorphine.

(4) Codeine methylbromide.

(5) Codeine-N-Oxide.

(6) Cyprenorphine.

(7) Desomorphine.

(8) Dihydromorphine.

(9) Etorphine.

(10) Heroin.

(11) Hydromorphinol.

(12) Methyldesorphine.

(13) Methylhydromorphine.

(14) Morphine methylbromide.

(15) Morphine methylsulfonate.

(16) Morphine-N-Oxide.

(17) Myrophine.

(18) Nicocodeine.

(19) Nicomorphine.

(20) Normorphine.

(21) Pholcodine.

(22) Thebacon.

(c) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation, which contains any quantity of the following hallucinogenic substances, or which contains any of their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation:

(1) 3,4-methylenedioxy amphetamine.

(2) 5-methoxy-3,4-methylenedioxy amphetamine.

(3) 3,4,5-trimethoxy amphetamine.

(4) Bufotenine.

(5) Diethyltryptamine.

(6) Dimethyltryptamine.

(7) 4-methyl-2,5-dimethoxyamphetamine.

(8) Ibogaine.

(9) Lysergic acid diethylamide.

(10) Marihuana.

(11) Mescaline.

(12) Peyote.

(13) N-ethyl-3-piperidyl benzilate.

(14) N-methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate.

(15) Psilocybin.

(16) Psilocyn.

(17) Tetrahydrocannabinols, except for tetrahydrocannabinols in hemp (as defined under section 1639*o* of title 7).

(18) 4-methylmethcathinone (Mephedrone).

(19) 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV).

(20) 2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl)ethanamine (2C–E).

(21) 2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C–D).

(22) 2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C–C).

(23) 2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C–I).

(24) 2-[4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl]ethanamine (2C–T–2).

(25) 2-[4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl]ethanamine (2C–T–4).

(26) 2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C–H).

(27) 2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C–N).

(28) 2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C–P).

(d)

(1) Unless specifically exempted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of cannabimimetic agents, or which contains their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation.

(2) In paragraph (1):

(A) The term “cannabimimetic agents” means any substance that is a cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1 receptor) agonist as demonstrated by binding studies and functional assays within any of the following structural classes:

(i) 2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)phenol with substitution at the 5-position of the phenolic ring by alkyl or alkenyl, whether or not substituted on the cyclohexyl ring to any extent.

(ii) 3-(1-naphthoyl)indole or 3-(1-naphthylmethane)indole by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring, whether or not further substituted on the indole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the naphthoyl or naphthyl ring to any extent.

(iii) 3-(1-naphthoyl)pyrrole by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the pyrrole ring, whether or not further substituted in the pyrrole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the naphthoyl ring to any extent.

(iv) 1-(1-naphthylmethylene)indene by substitution of the 3-position of the indene ring, whether or not further substituted in the indene ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the naphthyl ring to any extent.

(v) 3-phenylacetylindole or 3-benzoylindole by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring, whether or not further substituted in the indole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the phenyl ring to any extent.

(B) Such term includes—

(i) 5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol (CP–47,497);

(ii) 5-(1,1-dimethyloctyl)-2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol (cannabicyclohexanol or CP–47,497 C8-homolog);

(iii) 1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–018 and AM678);

(iv) 1-butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–073);

(v) 1-hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–019);

(vi) 1-[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl]-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–200);

(vii) 1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (JWH–250);

(viii) 1-pentyl-3-[1-(4-methoxynaphthoyl)]indole (JWH–081);

(ix) 1-pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–122);

(x) 1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (JWH–398);

(xi) 1-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (AM2201);

(xii) 1-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(2-iodobenzoyl)indole (AM694);

(xiii) 1-pentyl-3-[(4-methoxy)-benzoyl]indole (SR–19 and RCS–4);

(xiv) 1-cyclohexylethyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (SR–18 and RCS–8); and

(xv) 1-pentyl-3-(2-chlorophenylacetyl)indole (JWH–203).

(e)

(1) Unless specifically exempted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of a fentanyl-related substance, or which contains the salts, isomers, and salts of isomers of a fentanyl-related substance whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), except as provided in paragraph (3), the term “fentanyl-related substance” means any substance that is structurally related to fentanyl by 1 or more of the following modifications:

(A) By replacement of the phenyl portion of the phenethyl group by any monocycle, whether or not further substituted in or on the monocycle.

(B) By substitution in or on the phenethyl group with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, hydroxyl, halo, haloalkyl, amino, or nitro groups.

(C) By substitution in or on the piperidine ring with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxyl, ester, ether, hydroxyl, halo, haloalkyl, amino, or nitro groups.

(D) By replacement of the aniline ring with any aromatic monocycle whether or not further substituted in or on the aromatic monocycle.

(E) By replacement of the N-propionyl group with another acyl group.

(3) A substance that satisfies the definition of the term “fentanyl-related substance” in paragraph (2) shall nonetheless not be treated as a fentanyl-related substance subject to this schedule if the substance—

(A) is controlled by action of the Attorney General under [section 811 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s811); or

(B) is otherwise expressly listed in a schedule other than this schedule.

(4)

Schedule II

(A) The Attorney General may by order publish in the Federal Register a list of substances that satisfy the definition of the term “fentanyl-related substance” in paragraph (2).

(B) The absence of a substance from a list published under subparagraph (A) does not negate the control status of the substance under this schedule if the substance satisfies the definition of the term “fentanyl-related substance” in paragraph (2).

(a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following substances whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:

(1) Opium and opiate, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate.

(2) Any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of the substances referred to in clause (1), except that these substances shall not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium.

(3) Opium poppy and poppy straw.

(4) coca 33 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in this paragraph.

(b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters and ethers, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation:

(1) Alphaprodine.

(2) Anileridine.

(3) Bezitramide.

(4) Dihydrocodeine.

(5) Diphenoxylate.

(6) Fentanyl.

(7) Isomethadone.

(8) Levomethorphan.

(9) Levorphanol.

(10) Metazocine.

(11) Methadone.

(12) Methadone-Intermediate, 4-cyano-2-dimethylamino-4,4-diphenyl butane.

(13) Moramide-Intermediate, 2-methyl-3-morpholino-1, 1-diphenylpropane-carboxylic acid.

(14) Pethidine.

(15) Pethidine-Intermediate-A, 4-cyano-1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine.

(16) Pethidine-Intermediate-B, ethyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylate.

(17) Pethidine-Intermediate-C, 1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid.

(18) Phenazocine.

(19) Piminodine.

(20) Racemethorphan.

(21) Racemorphan.

(c) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any injectable liquid which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers.

(a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central nervous system:

(1) Amphetamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers.

(2) Phenmetrazine and its salts.

(3) Any substance (except an injectable liquid) which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers.

(4) Methylphenidate.

(b) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a depressant effect on the central nervous system:

(1) Any substance which contains any quantity of a derivative of barbituric acid, or any salt of a derivative of barbituric acid.

(2) Chorhexadol.44 So in original. Probably should be “Chlorhexadol.”

(3) Glutethimide.

(4) Lysergic acid.

(5) Lysergic acid amide.

(6) Methyprylon.

(7) Phencyclidine.

(8) Sulfondiethylmethane.

(9) Sulfonethylmethane.

(10) Sulfonmethane.

(c) Nalorphine.

(d) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation containing limited quantities of any of the following narcotic drugs, or any salts thereof:

(1) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with an equal or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium.

(2) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(3) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with a fourfold or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium.

(4) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(5) Not more than 1.8 grams of dihydrocodeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(6) Not more than 300 milligrams of ethylmorphine per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(7) Not more than 500 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams, or not more than 25 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(8) Not more than 50 milligrams of morphine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts.

(e) Anabolic steroids.

Schedule V

Any compound, mixture, or preparation containing any of the following limited quantities of narcotic drugs, which shall include one or more nonnarcotic active medicinal ingredients in sufficient proportion to confer upon the compound, mixture, or preparation valuable medicinal qualities other than those possessed by the narcotic drug alone:

(1) Barbital.

(2) Chloral betaine.

(3) Chloral hydrate.

(4) Ethchlorvynol.

(5) Ethinamate.

(6) Methohexital.

(7) Meprobamate.

(8) Methylphenobarbital.

(9) Paraldehyde.

(10) Petrichloral.

(11) Phenobarbital.

*([Pub. L. 91–513, title II, § 202](/us/pl/91/513/tII/s202), Oct. 27, 1970, [84 Stat. 1247](/us/stat/84/1247); [Pub. L. 95–633, title I, § 103](/us/pl/95/633/tI/s103), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3772](/us/stat/92/3772); [Pub. L. 98–473, title II](/us/pl/98/473/tII), §§ 507(c), 509(b), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2071](/us/stat/98/2071), 2072; [Pub. L. 99–570, title I, § 1867](/us/pl/99/570/tI/s1867), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–55](/us/stat/100/3207-55); [Pub. L. 99–646, § 84](/us/pl/99/646/s84), Nov. 10, 1986, [100 Stat. 3619](/us/stat/100/3619); [Pub. L. 101–647, title XIX, § 1902(a)](/us/pl/101/647/tXIX/s1902/a), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4851](/us/stat/104/4851); [Pub. L. 112–144, title XI, § 1152](/us/pl/112/144/tXI/s1152), July 9, 2012, [126 Stat. 1130](/us/stat/126/1130); [Pub. L. 115–334, title XII, § 12619(b)](/us/pl/115/334/tXII/s12619/b), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 5018](/us/stat/132/5018); [Pub. L. 119–26, § 2](/us/pl/119/26/s2), July 16, 2025, [139 Stat. 410](/us/stat/139/410).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 119–26](/us/pl/119/26) added schedule I(e).

2018—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334) inserted “, except for tetrahydrocannabinols in hemp (as defined under section 1639*o* of title 7)” after “Tetrahydrocannabinols” in schedule I(c)(17).

2012—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–144, § 1152(b)](/us/pl/112/144/s1152/b), added schedule I(c)(18) to (28).

[Pub. L. 112–144, § 1152(a)](/us/pl/112/144/s1152/a), added schedule I(d).

1990—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) added item (e) at end of schedule III.

1986—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 99–646](/us/pl/99/646) amended schedule II(a)(4) generally. Prior to amendment, schedule II(a)(4) read as follows: “Coca leaves (except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed); cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; and ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers.”

[Pub. L. 99–570](/us/pl/99/570) amended schedule II(a)(4) generally. Prior to amendment, schedule II(a)(4) read as follows: “Coca leaves and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca leaves (including cocaine and ecgonine and their salts, isomers, derivatives, and salts of isomers and derivatives), and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of these substances, except that the substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca leaves, which extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.”

1984—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 507(c)](/us/pl/98/473/s507/c), in schedule II(a)(4) added applicability to cocaine and ecgonine and their salts, isomers, etc.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 98–473, § 509(b)](/us/pl/98/473/s509/b), struck out subsec. (d) which related to authority of Attorney General to except stimulants or depressants containing active medicinal ingredients.

1978—Subsec. (d)(3). [Pub. L. 95–633](/us/pl/95/633) added cl. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2025 Amendment

[Pub. L. 119–26, § 7(a)](/us/pl/119/26/s7/a), July 16, 2025, [139 Stat. 418](/us/stat/139/418), provided that: “Irrespective of the date on which the rules required by section 5 [of [Pub. L. 119–26](/us/pl/119/26), set out as a note below] are finalized, the amendments made by this Act [see Short Title of 2025 Amendment note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s801)] apply beginning as of the date of enactment of this Act [July 16, 2025].”

#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647) effective 90 days after Nov. 29, 1990, see [section 1902(d) of Pub. L. 101–647](/us/pl/101/647/s1902/d), set out as a note under [section 802 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s802).

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 95–633](/us/pl/95/633) effective on date the Convention on Psychotropic Substances enters into force in the United States [July 15, 1980], see [section 112 of Pub. L. 95–633](/us/pl/95/633/s112), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 801a of this title](/us/usc/t21/s801a).

#### Amendment of Schedules of Controlled Substances

For updated and republished schedules of controlled substances established by this section, see Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1308 of Title 21, Food and Drugs.

#### Rulemaking

[Pub. L. 119–26, § 5](/us/pl/119/26/s5), July 16, 2025, [139 Stat. 417](/us/stat/139/417), provided that: “(a) Interim Final Rules.—The Attorney General—“(1) shall, not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act [July 16, 2025], issue rules to implement this Act [see Short Title of 2025 Amendment note set out under [section 801 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s801)] and the amendments made by this Act; and “(2) may issue the rules under paragraph (1) as interim final rules. “(b) Procedure for Final Rule.—“(1) Effectiveness of interim final rules.—A rule issued by the Attorney General as an interim final rule under subsection (a) shall become immediately effective as an interim final rule without requiring the Attorney General to demonstrate good cause therefor, notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of the undesignated matter following paragraph (4) of [section 553(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553/b), United States Code. “(2) Opportunity for comment and hearing.—An interim final rule issued under subsection (a) shall give interested persons the opportunity to comment and to request a hearing. “(3) Final rule.—After the conclusion of such proceedings, the Attorney General shall issue a final rule to implement this Act and the amendments made by this Act in accordance with [section 553 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553), United States Code.”

#### Reviewing the Scheduling of Approved Products Containing a Combination of Buprenorphine and Naloxone

[Pub. L. 119–44, title II, § 209](/us/pl/119/44/tII/s209), Dec. 1, 2025, [139 Stat. 682](/us/stat/139/682), provided that: “(a) Secretary of HHS.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, consistent with the requirements and procedures set forth in sections 201 and 202 of the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 811](/us/usc/t21/s811), 812)—“(1) review the relevant data pertaining to the scheduling of products containing a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone that have been approved under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ([21 U.S.C. 355](/us/usc/t21/s355)); and “(2) if appropriate, request that the Attorney General initiate rulemaking proceedings to revise the schedules accordingly with respect to such products. “(b) Attorney General.—The Attorney General shall review any request made by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under subsection (a)(2) and determine whether to initiate proceedings to revise the schedules in accordance with the criteria set forth in sections 201 and 202 of the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 811](/us/usc/t21/s811), 812).”

#### Congressional Finding; Emergency Scheduling of GHB in Controlled Substances Act

[Pub. L. 106–172](/us/pl/106/172), §§ 2, 3(a), Feb. 18, 2000, [114 Stat. 7](/us/stat/114/7), 8, provided that: “SEC. 2. FINDINGS.“Congress finds as follows:“(1) Gamma hydroxybutyric acid (also called G, Liquid X, Liquid Ecstasy, Grievous Bodily Harm, Georgia Home Boy, Scoop) has become a significant and growing problem in law enforcement. At least 20 States have scheduled such drug in their drug laws and law enforcement officials have been experiencing an increased presence of the drug in driving under the influence, sexual assault, and overdose cases especially at night clubs and parties. “(2) A behavioral depressant and a hypnotic, gamma hydroxybutyric acid (‘GHB’) is being used in conjunction with alcohol and other drugs with detrimental effects in an increasing number of cases. It is difficult to isolate the impact of such drug’s ingestion since it is so typically taken with an ever-changing array of other drugs and especially alcohol which potentiates its impact. “(3) GHB takes the same path as alcohol, processes via alcohol dehydrogenase, and its symptoms at high levels of intake and as impact builds are comparable to alcohol ingestion/intoxication. Thus, aggression and violence can be expected in some individuals who use such drug. “(4) If taken for human consumption, common industrial chemicals such as gamma butyrolactone and 1.4-butanediol are swiftly converted by the body into GHB. Illicit use of these and other GHB analogues and precursor chemicals is a significant and growing law enforcement problem. “(5) A human pharmaceutical formulation of gamma hydroxybutyric acid is being developed as a treatment for cataplexy, a serious and debilitating disease. Cataplexy, which causes sudden and total loss of muscle control, affects about 65 percent of the estimated 180,000 Americans with narcolepsy, a sleep disorder. People with cataplexy often are unable to work, drive a car, hold their children or live a normal life. “(6) Abuse of illicit GHB is an imminent hazard to public safety that requires immediate regulatory action under the Controlled Substances Act ([21 U.S.C. 801](/us/usc/t21/s801) et seq.). “SEC. 3. EMERGENCY SCHEDULING OF GAMMA HYDROXYBUTYRIC ACID AND LISTING OF GAMMA BUTYROLACTONE AS LIST I CHEMICAL.“(a) Emergency Scheduling of GHB.—“(1) In general.—The Congress finds that the abuse of illicit gamma hydroxybutyric acid is an imminent hazard to the public safety. Accordingly, the Attorney General, notwithstanding sections 201(a), 201(b), 201(c), and 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [[21 U.S.C. 811(a)](/us/usc/t21/s811/a)–(c), 812], shall issue, not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 18, 2000], a final order that schedules such drug (together with its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) in the same schedule under section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act as would apply to a scheduling of a substance by the Attorney General under section 201(h)(1) of such Act (relating to imminent hazards to the public safety), except as follows:“(A) For purposes of any requirements that relate to the physical security of registered manufacturers and registered distributors, the final order shall treat such drug, when the drug is manufactured, distributed, or possessed in accordance with an exemption under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 355(i)](/us/usc/t21/s355/i)] (whether the exemption involved is authorized before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 18, 2000]), as being in the same schedule as that recommended by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the drug when the drug is the subject of an authorized investigational new drug application (relating to such section 505(i)). The recommendation referred to in the preceding sentence is contained in the first paragraph of the letter transmitted on May 19, 1999, by such Secretary (acting through the Assistant Secretary for Health) to the Attorney General (acting through the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration), which letter was in response to the letter transmitted by the Attorney General (acting through such Deputy Administrator) on September 16, 1997. In publishing the final order in the Federal Register, the Attorney General shall publish a copy of the letter that was transmitted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. “(B) In the case of gamma hydroxybutyric acid that is contained in a drug product for which an application is approved under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [[21 U.S.C. 355](/us/usc/t21/s355)] (whether the application involved is approved before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 18, 2000]), the final order shall schedule such drug in the same schedule as that recommended by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for authorized formulations of the drug. The recommendation referred to in the preceding sentence is contained in the last sentence of the fourth paragraph of the letter referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to May 19, 1999. “(2) Failure to issue order.—If the final order is not issued within the period specified in paragraph (1), gamma hydroxybutyric acid (together with its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) is deemed to be scheduled under section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act [[21 U.S.C. 812(c)](/us/usc/t21/s812/c)] in accordance with the policies described in paragraph (1), as if the Attorney General had issued a final order in accordance with such paragraph.”

#### Placement of Pipradrol and SPA in Schedule IV To Carry Out Obligation Under Convention on Psychotropic Substances

[Pub. L. 95–633, title I, § 102(c)](/us/pl/95/633/tI/s102/c), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3772](/us/stat/92/3772), provided that: “For the purpose of carrying out the minimum United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed at Vienna, Austria, on February 21, 1971, with respect to pipradrol and SPA (also known as (-)-1-dimethyl­amino-1,2-diphenylethane), the Attorney General shall by order, made without regard to sections 201 and 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [this section and [section 811 of this title](/us/usc/t21/s811)], place such drugs in schedule IV of such Act [see subsec. (c) of this section].”

Provision of [section 102(c) of Pub. L. 95–633](/us/pl/95/633/s102/c), set out above, effective on the date the Convention on Psychotropic Substances enters into force in the United States [July 15, 1980], see [section 112 of Pub. L. 95–633](/us/pl/95/633/s112), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 801a of this title](/us/usc/t21/s801a).
