---
title: "§ 3510b. Acquisition of critical skills"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3510b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3510b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–569, title V, § 506](/us/pl/99/569/tV/s506), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3202](/us/stat/100/3202).)"
---
# § 3510b. Acquisition of critical skills

##### § 3510b. Acquisition of critical skills

Pursuant to the authority granted in [section 3510 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3510), the Director of Central Intelligence shall establish an undergraduate training program with respect to civilian employees of the Central Intelligence Agency similar in purpose, conditions, content, and administration to the program which the Secretary of Defense is authorized to establish under [section 3614 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3614) for civilian employees of the National Security Agency.

*([Pub. L. 99–569, title V, § 506](/us/pl/99/569/tV/s506), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3202](/us/stat/100/3202).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 403j of this title](/us/usc/t50/s403j) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

Section was enacted as part of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987, and not as part of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence, and reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, see section 1081(a), (b) of [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458), set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
