---
title: "§ 5319. Limitations on access to financial records"
identifier: "USC-T38-S5319"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section5319"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–568, title VI, § 603(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/568/tVI/s603/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4342](/us/stat/106/4342).)"
---
# § 5319. Limitations on access to financial records

##### § 5319. Limitations on access to financial records

(a) The Secretary may make a request referred to in section 1113(p) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 ([12 U.S.C. 3413(p)](/us/usc/t12/s3413/p)) only if the Secretary determines that the requested information—

(1) is necessary in order for the Secretary to administer the provisions of law referred to in that section; and

(2) cannot be secured by a reasonable search of records and information of the Department.

(b) The Secretary shall include a certification of the determinations referred to in subsection (a) in each request presented to a financial institution.

(c) Information disclosed pursuant to a request referred to in subsection (a) may be used solely for the purpose of the administration of benefits programs under laws administered by the Secretary if, except for the exemption in subsection (a), the disclosure of that information would otherwise be prohibited by any provision of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–568, title VI, § 603(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/568/tVI/s603/b/1), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4342](/us/stat/106/4342).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (c), is title XI of [Pub. L. 95–630](/us/pl/95/630), Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3697](/us/stat/92/3697), which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 3401 et seq.) of Title 12, Banks and Banking. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3401 of Title 12](/us/usc/t12/s3401) and Tables.
