---
title: "§ 10366. Evaluation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10366"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10366"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1606](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1606), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3405](/us/stat/106/3405).)"
---
# § 10366. Evaluation

##### § 10366. Evaluation

(a) In general

(1) Each State and local entity that receives a grant under this subchapter shall submit to the Director an evaluation not later than March 1 of each year in accordance with guidelines issued by the Director and in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Justice.

(2) The Director may waive the requirement specified in subsection (a) if the Director determines that such evaluation is not warranted in the case of the State or local entity involved.

(b) Distribution The Director shall make available to the public on a timely basis evaluations received under subsection (a).

(c) Administrative costs A State or local entity may use not more than 5 percent of the funds it receives under this subchapter to develop an evaluation program under this section.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1606](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1606), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3405](/us/stat/106/3405).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796cc–5 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796cc–5), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
