---
title: "§ 3240. Creation of new district or division"
identifier: "USC-T18-S3240"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section3240"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 827](/us/stat/62/827); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 50](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s50), [63 Stat. 96](/us/stat/63/96).)"
---
# § 3240. Creation of new district or division

##### § 3240. Creation of new district or division

Whenever any new district or division is established, or any county or territory is transferred from one district or division to another district or division, prosecutions for offenses committed within such district, division, county, or territory prior to such transfer, shall be commenced and proceeded with the same as if such new district or division had not been created, or such county or territory had not been transferred, unless the court, upon the application of the defendant, shall order the case to be removed to the new district or division for trial.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 645](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645), [62 Stat. 827](/us/stat/62/827); [May 24, 1949, ch. 139, § 50](/us/act/1949-05-24/ch139/s50), [63 Stat. 96](/us/stat/63/96).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

#### 1948 Act

Based on [section 121 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s121), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Judicial Code and Judiciary ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 59](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s59), [36 Stat. 1103](/us/stat/36/1103)).

[Section 121 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s121), U.S.C., 1940 ed., Judicial Code and Judiciary, was divided into two sections. Only the portion relating to venue in civil cases was left in title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., Judicial Code and Judiciary.

Minor changes of phraseology were made.

#### 1949 Act

This section [section 50] strikes the second sentence of [section 3240 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3240), U.S.C., as unnecessary. Section “119” of title 28, U.S.C., referred to in such sentence, became [section 1404 of title 28](/us/usc/t28/s1404) upon its revision and enactment into positive law in 1948, but reference to the latter, in said [section 3240 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s3240), U.S.C., is surplusage in view of rule 19 et seq. of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure and the remainder of such section 3240.

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1949—Act May 24, 1949, struck out “The transfer of such prosecutions shall be made in the manner provided in [section 119 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s119)”.
