---
title: "§ 3221. Congressional declaration of policy"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3221"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3221"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, title I, § 101](/us/pl/95/242/tI/s101), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 121](/us/stat/92/121).)"
---
# § 3221. Congressional declaration of policy

##### § 3221. Congressional declaration of policy

The United States, as a matter of national policy, shall take such actions and institute such measures as may be necessary and feasible to assure other nations and groups of nations that may seek to utilize the benefits of atomic energy for peaceful purposes that it will provide a reliable supply of nuclear fuel to those nations and groups of nations which adhere to policies designed to prevent proliferation. Such nuclear fuel shall be provided under agreements entered into pursuant to [section 2201 of title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2201) or as otherwise authorized by law. The United States shall ensure that it will have available the capacity on a long-term basis to enter into new fuel supply commitments consistent with its non-proliferation policies and domestic energy needs. The Commission shall, on a timely basis, authorize the export of nuclear materials and equipment when all the applicable statutory requirements are met.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, title I, § 101](/us/pl/95/242/tI/s101), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 121](/us/stat/92/121).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3201).
