---
title: "§ 300aa–31. Citizen’s actions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300aa–31"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300aa–31"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXI, § 2131, as added [Pub. L. 99–660, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/99/660/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3778](/us/stat/100/3778); amended [Pub. L. 100–203, title IV, § 4305](/us/pl/100/203/tIV/s4305), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1330–224](/us/stat/101/1330-224).)"
---
# § 300aa–31. Citizen’s actions

##### § 300aa–31. Citizen’s actions

(a) General rule Except as provided in subsection (b), any person may commence in a district court of the United States a civil action on such person’s own behalf against the Secretary where there is alleged a failure of the Secretary to perform any act or duty under this part.

(b) Notice No action may be commenced under subsection (a) before the date which is 60 days after the person bringing the action has given written notice of intent to commence such action to the Secretary.

(c) Costs of litigation The court, in issuing any final order in any action under this section, may award costs of litigation (including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees) to any plaintiff who substantially prevails on one or more significant issues in the action.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title XXI, § 2131, as added [Pub. L. 99–660, title III, § 311(a)](/us/pl/99/660/tIII/s311/a), Nov. 14, 1986, [100 Stat. 3778](/us/stat/100/3778); amended [Pub. L. 100–203, title IV, § 4305](/us/pl/100/203/tIV/s4305), Dec. 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 1330–224](/us/stat/101/1330-224).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1987—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 100–203](/us/pl/100/203), which directed that subsec. (c) be amended by substituting “to any plaintiff who substantially prevails on one or more significant issues in the action” for “to any party, whenever the court determines that such award is appropriate”, was executed by making the substitution for “to any party, whenever the court determines such award is appropriate”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Subpart effective Dec. 22, 1987, see [section 323 of Pub. L. 99–660](/us/pl/99/660/s323), set out as a note under [section 300aa–1 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s300aa–1).
