---
title: "§ 8531. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8531"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8531"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 301](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s301), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/138/2891).)"
---
# § 8531. Definitions

##### § 8531. Definitions

(1) Commercial use authorization The term “commercial use authorization” means a commercial use authorization to provide services to visitors to units of the National Park System under subchapter II of chapter 1019 of title 54.

(2) Multijurisdictional trip The term “multijurisdictional trip” means a trip that—

(A) uses 2 or more units of Federal recreational lands and waters; and

(B) is under the jurisdiction of 2 or more Federal land management agencies.

(3) Recreation service provider The term “recreation service provider” has the meaning given the term in [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801) (as amended by section 311).

(4) Special recreation permit The term “special recreation permit” has the meaning given the term in [section 6801 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s6801) (as amended by section 311).

(5) Visitor-use day The term “visitor-use day” means a visitor-use day, user day, launch, or other metric used by the Secretary concerned for purposes of authorizing use under a special recreation permit.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title III, § 301](/us/pl/118/234/tIII/s301), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/138/2891).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2891](/us/stat/138/2891), which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.

Section 311, referred to in pars. (3) and (4), means [section 311 of Pub. L. 118–234](/us/pl/118/234/s311).
