---
title: "§ 17192. Hydrothermal research and development"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17192"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17192"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/110/140/tVI/s613), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/121/1679); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3002(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3002/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2487](/us/stat/134/2487).)"
---
# § 17192. Hydrothermal research and development

##### § 17192. Hydrothermal research and development

(a) In general The Secretary shall carry out a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application for geothermal energy production from hydrothermal systems.

(b) Programs The program authorized in subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) Advanced hydrothermal resource tools The research and development of advanced geologic tools to assist in locating hydrothermal resources, and to increase the reliability of site characterization, including the development of new imaging and sensing technologies and techniques to assist in prioritization of targets for characterization;

(2) Exploratory drilling for geothermal resources The demonstration of advanced technologies and techniques of siting and exploratory drilling for undiscovered resources in a variety of geologic settings, carried out in collaboration with industry partners that will assist in the acquisition of high quality data sets relevant for hydrothermal subsurface characterization activities.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 613](/us/pl/110/140/tVI/s613), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1679](/us/stat/121/1679); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. Z, title III, § 3002(b)](/us/pl/116/260/dZ/tIII/s3002/b), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2487](/us/stat/134/2487).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—[Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to hydrothermal research and development.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
