---
title: "§ 636. Retirement for years of service: regular and Space Force officers in grades above brigadier general; regular Navy officers in grades above rear admiral (lower half)"
identifier: "USC-T10-S636"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section636"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–513, title I, § 105](/us/pl/96/513/tI/s105), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2863](/us/stat/94/2863); amended [Pub. L. 98–525, title XIV, § 1405(14)](/us/pl/98/525/tXIV/s1405/14), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2622](/us/stat/98/2622); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, § 506(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tV/s506/a), (b), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/111/1726); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, § 505(b)(4)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tV/s505/b/4), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2108](/us/stat/130/210"
---
# § 636. Retirement for years of service: regular and Space Force officers in grades above brigadier general; regular Navy officers in grades above rear admiral (lower half)

##### § 636. Retirement for years of service: regular and Space Force officers in grades above brigadier general; regular Navy officers in grades above rear admiral (lower half)

(a) Major Generals and Rear Admirals Serving in Grade.—

(1) Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c) and under section 637(b) or 637a of this title, each officer of the Regular Army, Regular Air Force, or Regular Marine Corps who holds the regular grade of major general, and each officer of the Regular Navy who holds the regular grade of rear admiral, shall, if not earlier retired, be retired on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the fifth anniversary of his appointment to that grade or on the first day of the month after the month in which he completes 35 years of active commissioned service, whichever is later.

(2) Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c) and under section 637(b) or 637a of this title, each officer of the Space Force who holds the grade of major general shall, if not earlier retired, be retired as specified in paragraph (1).

(b) Lieutenant Generals and Vice Admirals.— In the administration of subsection (a) in the case of an officer who is serving in the grade of lieutenant general or vice admiral, the number of years of active commissioned service applicable to the officer is 38 years.

(c) Generals and Admirals.— In the administration of subsection (a) in the case of an officer who is serving in the grade of general or admiral, the number of years of active commissioned service applicable to the officer is 40 years.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–513, title I, § 105](/us/pl/96/513/tI/s105), Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2863](/us/stat/94/2863); amended [Pub. L. 98–525, title XIV, § 1405(14)](/us/pl/98/525/tXIV/s1405/14), Oct. 19, 1984, [98 Stat. 2622](/us/stat/98/2622); [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, § 506(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tV/s506/a), (b), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1726](/us/stat/111/1726); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title V, § 505(b)(4)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tV/s505/b/4), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2108](/us/stat/130/2108); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, § 924(b)(4)(G)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tIX/s924/b/4/G), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3822](/us/stat/134/3822); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1722(b)(6)(D)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1722/b/6/D), (E)(iv), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 669](/us/stat/137/669), 670.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2023—[Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(b)(6)(E)(iv)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/b/6/E/iv), substituted “and Space Force officers in grades above brigadier general; regular Navy officers in grades above” for “officers in grades above brigadier general and” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–31, § 1722(b)(6)(D)](/us/pl/118/31/s1722/b/6/D), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “or Regular Marine Corps” for “Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space Force”, and added par. (2).

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space Force” for “or Regular Marine Corps”.

2016—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) inserted “or 637a” after “637(b)”.

1997—[Pub. L. 105–85, § 506(b)](/us/pl/105/85/s506/b), substituted “regular officers in grades above brigadier general and rear admiral (lower half)” for “regular major generals and rear admirals” in section catchline.

[Pub. L. 105–85, § 506(a)](/us/pl/105/85/s506/a), designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, substituted “Except as provided in subsection (b) or (c) and” for “Except as provided”, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

1984—[Pub. L. 98–525](/us/pl/98/525) substituted “35” for “thirty-five”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Sept. 15, 1981, but the authority to prescribe regulations under this section effective on Dec. 12, 1980, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 96–513](/us/pl/96/513/s701), set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s101).
