---
title: "§ 6552. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S6552"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section6552"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–148, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/108/148/tIV/s402), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/117/1908).)"
---
# § 6552. Definitions

##### § 6552. Definitions

(1) Applied silvicultural assessment

(A) In general The term “applied silvicultural assessment” means any vegetative or other treatment carried out for information gathering and research purposes.

(B) Inclusions The term “applied silvicultural assessment” includes timber harvesting, thinning, prescribed burning, pruning, and any combination of those activities.

(2) 1890 Institution

(A) In general The term “1890 Institution” means a college or university that is eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 ([7 U.S.C. 321](/us/usc/t7/s321) et seq.).

(B) Inclusion The term “1890 Institution” includes Tuskegee University.

(3) Forest-damaging insect The term “forest-damaging insect” means—

(A) a Southern pine beetle;

(B) a mountain pine beetle;

(C) a spruce bark beetle;

(D) a gypsy moth;

(E) a hemlock woolly adelgid;

(F) an emerald ash borer;

(G) a red oak borer;

(H) a white oak borer; and

(I) such other insects as may be identified by the Secretary.

(4) Secretary The term “Secretary” means—

(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Forest Service, with respect to National Forest System land; and

(B) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through appropriate offices of the United States Geological Survey, with respect to federally owned land administered by the Secretary of the Interior.

*([Pub. L. 108–148, title IV, § 402](/us/pl/108/148/tIV/s402), Dec. 3, 2003, [117 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/117/1908).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of August 30, 1890, referred to in par. (2)(A), is [act Aug. 30, 1890, ch. 841](/us/act/1890-08-30/ch841), [26 Stat. 417](/us/stat/26/417), popularly known as the Agricultural College Act of 1890 and also as the Second Morrill Act, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 321 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 321 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s321) and Tables.
