---
title: "§ 3821. Certificates"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3821"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3821"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–281, title X, § 1021](/us/pl/111/281/tX/s1021), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3025](/us/stat/124/3025).)"
---
# § 3821. Certificates

##### § 3821. Certificates

(a) Certificate required On entry into force of the Convention for the United States, any vessel of at least 400 gross tons that engages in one or more international voyages (except fixed or floating platforms, FSUs, and FPSOs) shall carry an International Antifouling System Certificate.

(b) Issuance of Certificate On entry into force of the Convention, on a finding that a successful survey required by the Convention has been completed, a vessel of at least 400 gross tons that engages in at least one international voyage (except fixed or floating platforms, FSUs, and FPSOs) shall be issued an International Antifouling System Certificate. The Secretary may issue the Certificate required by this section. The Secretary may delegate this authority to an organization that the Secretary determines is qualified to undertake that responsibility.

(c) Maintenance of Certificate The Certificate required by this section shall be maintained as required by the Secretary.

(d) Certificates issued by other party countries A Certificate issued by any country that is a party to the Convention has the same validity as a Certificate issued by the Secretary under this section.

(e) Vessels of nonparty countries Notwithstanding subsection (a), a vessel of at least 400 gross tons, having the nationality of or entitled to fly the flag of a country that is not a party to the Convention, may demonstrate compliance with this chapter through other appropriate documentation considered acceptable by the Secretary.

*([Pub. L. 111–281, title X, § 1021](/us/pl/111/281/tX/s1021), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3025](/us/stat/124/3025).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (e), was in the original “this title”, meaning title X of [Pub. L. 111–281](/us/pl/111/281), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 3023](/us/stat/124/3023), which enacted this chapter and repealed chapter 37 (§ 2401 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of title X to the Code, see Tables.
