---
title: "§ 5107. Classification of positions"
identifier: "USC-T5-S5107"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section5107"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 453](/us/stat/80/453); [Pub. L. 95–454, title VIII, § 801(a)(3)(E)](/us/pl/95/454/tVIII/s801/a/3/E), title IX, § 906(a)(2), (3), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1222](/us/stat/92/1222), 1224.)"
---
# § 5107. Classification of positions

##### § 5107. Classification of positions

Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, each agency shall place each position under its jurisdiction in its appropriate class and grade in conformance with standards published by the Office of Personnel Management or, if no published standards apply directly, consistently with published standards. When facts warrant, an agency may change a position which it has placed in a class or grade under this section from that class or grade to another class or grade. Subject to subchapter VI of chapter 53 of this title, these actions of an agency are the basis for pay and personnel transactions until changed by certificate of the Office.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 453](/us/stat/80/453); [Pub. L. 95–454, title VIII, § 801(a)(3)(E)](/us/pl/95/454/tVIII/s801/a/3/E), title IX, § 906(a)(2), (3), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1222](/us/stat/92/1222), 1224.)*

The words “to which this chapter applies” are omitted as unnecessary in view of section 5102. The words “Subject to [section 5337 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5337)” are added to reflect the qualification imposed by that section.

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 1102(a). | Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, § 502(a), 63 Stat. 958. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454) substituted “Office of Personnel Management” for “Civil Service Commission”, “Office” for “Commission”, and “subchapter VI of chapter 53” for “section 5337”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1978 Amendment

Amendment by [section 803(a)(3)(E) of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s803/a/3/E), substituting reference to subchapter VI of chapter 53 for reference to section 5337, effective on first day of first applicable pay period beginning on or after 90th day after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 801(a)(4) of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s801/a/4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 5361 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s5361).

Amendment by section 906(a)(2), (3) of [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454), substituting reference to Office of Personnel Management for reference to Civil Service Commission, effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as a note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).
