---
title: "§ 4345. Consultation with Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality and other representatives"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4345"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4345"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–190, title II, § 205](/us/pl/91/190/tII/s205), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 855](/us/stat/83/855).)"
---
# § 4345. Consultation with Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality and other representatives

##### § 4345. Consultation with Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality and other representatives

(1) consult with the Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality established by Executive Order numbered 11472, dated May 29, 1969, and with such representatives of science, industry, agriculture, labor, conservation organizations, State and local governments and other groups, as it deems advisable; and

(2) utilize, to the fullest extent possible, the services, facilities, and information (including statistical information) of public and private agencies and organizations, and individuals, in order that duplication of effort and expense may be avoided, thus assuring that the Council’s activities will not unnecessarily overlap or conflict with similar activities authorized by law and performed by established agencies.

*([Pub. L. 91–190, title II, § 205](/us/pl/91/190/tII/s205), Jan. 1, 1970, [83 Stat. 855](/us/stat/83/855).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order numbered 11472, dated May 29, 1969, referred to in par. (1), is set out as a note under [section 4321 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4321).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality

For provisions relating to termination of Citizens’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality, see Ex. Ord. No. 12007, Aug. 22, 1977, 42 F.R. 42839, formerly set out as a note under [section 1013 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s1013), Government Organization and Employees.
