---
title: "§ 12622. Annual report"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12622"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12622"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–141, div. Q, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/115/141/dQ/tI/s102/b), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1119](/us/stat/132/1119).)"
---
# § 12622. Annual report

##### § 12622. Annual report

(1) the number of individuals who benefitted from the Missing Americans Alert Program, including information such as the number of individuals with reduced unsafe wandering, the number of people who were trained through the program, and the estimated number of people who were impacted by the program;

(2) the number of State, local, and tribal law enforcement or public safety agencies that applied for funding under the Missing Americans Alert Program;

(3) the number of State, local, and tribal local law enforcement or public safety agencies that received funding under the Missing Americans Alert Program, including—

(A) the number of State, local, and tribal law enforcement or public safety agencies that used such funding for training; and

(B) the number of State, local, and tribal law enforcement or public safety agencies that used such funding for designing, establishing, or operating locative tracking technology;

(4) the companies, including the location (city and State) of the headquarters and local offices of each company, for which their locative tracking technology was used by State, local, and tribal law enforcement or public safety agencies;

(5) the nonprofit organizations, including the location (city and State) of the headquarters and local offices of each organization, that State, local, and tribal law enforcement or public safety agencies partnered with and the result of each partnership;

(6) the number of missing children with autism or another developmental disability with wandering tendencies or adults with Alzheimer’s being served by the program who went missing and the result of the search for each such individual; and

(7) any recommendations for improving the Missing Americans Alert Program.

*([Pub. L. 115–141, div. Q, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/115/141/dQ/tI/s102/b), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1119](/us/stat/132/1119).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (a), referred to in text, is subsec. (a) of [section 102 of Pub. L. 115–141](/us/pl/115/141/s102), which amended [section 12621 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s12621).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Missing Americans Alert Program Act of 2018 and also as part of Kevin and Avonte’s Law of 2018 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.
