---
title: "§ 11191. Content of materials"
identifier: "USC-T34-S11191"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section11191"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 299J](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s299J), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12220](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12220), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1893](/us/stat/116/1893).)"
---
# § 11191. Content of materials

##### § 11191. Content of materials

Materials produced, procured, or distributed both using funds appropriated to carry out this chapter and for the purpose of preventing hate crimes that result in acts of physical violence, shall not recommend or require any action that abridges or infringes upon the constitutionally protected rights of free speech, religion, or equal protection of juveniles or of their parents or legal guardians.

*([Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 299J](/us/pl/93/415/tII/s299J), as added [Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12220](/us/pl/107/273/dC/tII/s12220), Nov. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 1893](/us/stat/116/1893).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109), known as the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 5681 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s5681), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see [section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273](/us/pl/107/273/s12223), set out as an Effective Date of 2002 Amendment note under [section 11101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s11101).
