---
title: "§ 17352. Establishment and management of Foundation"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17352"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17352"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 922](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s922), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1733](/us/stat/121/1733).)"
---
# § 17352. Establishment and management of Foundation

##### § 17352. Establishment and management of Foundation

(a) Establishment

(1) In general There is established in the executive branch a foundation to be known as the “International Clean Energy Foundation” that shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this part. The Foundation shall be a government corporation, as defined in [section 103 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s103).

(2) Board of Directors The Foundation shall be governed by a Board of Directors in accordance with subsection (c).

(3) Intent of Congress It is the intent of Congress, in establishing the structure of the Foundation set forth in this subsection, to create an entity that serves the long-term foreign policy and energy security goals of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.

(b) Chief Executive Officer

(1) In general There shall be in the Foundation a Chief Executive Officer who shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation.

(2) Appointment The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the Board, with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall be a recognized leader in clean and efficient energy technologies and climate change and shall have experience in energy security, business, or foreign policy, chosen on the basis of a rigorous search.

(3) Relationship to Board The Chief Executive Officer shall report to, and be under the direct authority of, the Board.

(4) Compensation and rank

(A) In general The Chief Executive Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level III of the Executive Schedule under [section 5314 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314).

(B) Omitted

(C) Authorities and duties The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation and shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the Foundation.

(D) Authority to appoint officers In consultation and with approval of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint all officers of the Foundation.

(c) Board of Directors

(1) Establishment There shall be in the Foundation a Board of Directors.

(2) Duties The Board shall perform the functions specified to be carried out by the Board in this part and may prescribe, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, regulations, and procedures governing the manner in which the business of the Foundation may be conducted and in which the powers granted to it by law may be exercised.

(3) Membership The Board shall consist of—

(A) the Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee), the Secretary of Energy (or the Secretary’s designee), and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (or the Administrator’s designee); and

(B) four other individuals with relevant experience in matters relating to energy security (such as individuals who represent institutions of energy policy, business organizations, foreign policy organizations, or other relevant organizations) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of whom—

(i) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(ii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(iii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Majority Leader of the Senate; and

(iv) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Minority Leader of the Senate.

(4) Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member of the Board.

(5) Terms

(A) Officers of the Federal Government Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) shall serve for a term that is concurrent with the term of service of the individual’s position as an officer within the other Federal department or agency.

(B) Other members Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for a term of an additional 3 years.

(C) Vacancies A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(D) Acting members A vacancy in the Board may be filled with an appointment of an acting member by the Chairperson of the Board for up to 1 year while a nominee is named and awaits confirmation in accordance with paragraph (3)(B).

(6) Chairperson There shall be a Chairperson of the Board. The Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee) shall serve as the Chairperson.

(7) Quorum A majority of the members of the Board described in paragraph (3) shall constitute a quorum, which, except with respect to a meeting of the Board during the 135-day period beginning on December 19, 2007, shall include at least 1 member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B).

(8) Meetings The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, who shall call a meeting no less than once a year.

(9) Compensation

(A) Officers of the Federal Government

(i) In general A member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of the member’s service on the Board.

(ii) Travel expenses Each such member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.

(B) Other members

(i) In general Except as provided in clause (ii), a member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B)—

(I) shall be paid compensation out of funds made available for the purposes of this part at the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under [section 5332 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5332) for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board; and

(II) while away from the member’s home or regular place of business on necessary travel in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board, shall be paid per diem, travel, and transportation expenses in the same manner as is provided under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.

(ii) Limitation A member of the Board may not be paid compensation under clause (i)(II) for more than 90 days in any calendar year.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 922](/us/pl/110/140/tIX/s922), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1733](/us/stat/121/1733).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 922 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s922). Subsec. (b)(4)(B) of [section 922 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s922) amended [section 5314 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5314), Government Organization and Employees.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
