---
title: "§ 194. Dividends on adjusted claims; distribution of assets"
identifier: "USC-T12-S194"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section194"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 5236; [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(12)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/12), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/108/2294).)"
---
# § 194. Dividends on adjusted claims; distribution of assets

##### § 194. Dividends on adjusted claims; distribution of assets

From time to time, the comptroller shall make a ratable dividend of the money so paid over to him by such receiver on all such claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the assets of such association are paid over to him, shall make further dividends on all claims previously proved or adjudicated; and the remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the shareholders of such association, or their legal representatives, in proportion to the stock by them respectively held.

*(R.S. § 5236; [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(12)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/12), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2294](/us/stat/108/2294).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

R.S. § 5236 derived from [act June 3, 1864, ch. 106, § 50](/us/act/1864-06-03/ch106/s50), [13 Stat. 114](/us/stat/13/114), which was the National Bank Act. See [section 38 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s38).

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–325](/us/pl/103/325) struck out “, after full provision has been first made for refunding to the United States any deficiency in redeeming the notes of such association” after “From time to time”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Application to District of Columbia

Provisions of this section were made applicable to banks, etc. in the District of Columbia by [act Mar. 4, 1933, ch. 274, § 4](/us/act/1933-03-04/ch274/s4), [47 Stat. 1567](/us/stat/47/1567).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Exception as to Transfer of Functions

Functions vested by any provision of law in Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this section, not included in transfer of functions to Secretary of the Treasury, see note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1).
