---
title: "§ 3334o. Requirements and report on workforce needs of intelligence community relating to science, technology, engineering, and math, and related areas"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3334o"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3334o"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6723](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6723), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3581](/us/stat/136/3581).)"
---
# § 3334o. Requirements and report on workforce needs of intelligence community relating to science, technology, engineering, and math, and related areas

##### § 3334o. Requirements and report on workforce needs of intelligence community relating to science, technology, engineering, and math, and related areas

(a) Requirements The Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the heads of human capital from each element of the intelligence community, shall—

(1) develop a plan for the recruitment and retention of personnel to positions the primary duties of which involve the integration, maintenance, or use of artificial intelligence (and the retention and training of personnel serving in such positions), including with respect to the authorities and requirements under section 6732(b); 11 See References in Text note below.

(2) develop a plan for the review and evaluation, on a continuous basis, of the expertise necessary to accelerate the adoption of artificial intelligence and other emerging technology solutions; and

(3) coordinate and share information and best practices relating to such recruitment and retention within the element and across the intelligence community.

(b) Report

(1) Submission Not later than January 1, 2024, the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with heads of human capital from each element of the intelligence community, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a single report on the workforce needs of each element of the intelligence community relating to emerging technologies, with a specific focus on artificial intelligence.

(2) Elements The report under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to each element of the intelligence community, the following:

(A) A description of the number and types of personnel in work roles whose primary official duties include artificial intelligence responsibilities.

(B) A detailed description of the plans for each element developed pursuant to subsection (a).

(3) Other matters The report under paragraph (1) shall also include an assessment of the quality and sustainability of the talent pipeline of the intelligence community with respect to talent in emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence. Such assessment shall include the following:

(A) A description of the education, recruitment, and retention programs (including skills-based training and career and technical educational programs) available to personnel of the intelligence community, regardless of whether such programs are administered by the head of an element of the intelligence community or the head of another Federal department or agency, and an analysis of how such programs support the quality and sustainability of such talent pipeline.

(B) A description of the relevant authorities available to the heads of the elements of the intelligence community to promote the quality and sustainability of such talent pipeline.

(C) An assessment of any gaps in authorities, resources, recruitment or retention incentives, skills-based training, or educational programs, that may negatively affect the quality or sustainability of such talent pipeline.

(4) Form The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in classified or unclassified form, as appropriate.

(c) Information access The heads of the elements of the intelligence community shall furnish to the Director of National Intelligence such information as may be necessary for the development of the report under subsection (b).

*([Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXVII, § 6723](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXVII/s6723), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3581](/us/stat/136/3581).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 6732(b), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), means [section 6732(b) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6732/b), which is set out in a note under [section 3024 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees” as used in this section, see [section 6002 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).

For definitions of “artificial intelligence” and “emerging technology” as used in this section, see [section 6701 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6701), set out as a note under [section 3024 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3024).
