---
title: "§ 10551. Program authorized"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2701](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2701), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1501](/us/stat/114/1501); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1169(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1169/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3122](/us/stat/119/3122); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14010](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14010),"
---
# § 10551. Program authorized

##### § 10551. Program authorized

(a) In general

(1) COPS grants The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (referred to in this subchapter as the “COPS Director”) is authorized to make grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes for the purposes described in paragraphs (5) through (9) of subsection (b).

(2) BJA grants The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance (referred to in this subchapter as the “BJA Director”) is authorized to make grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b).

(b) Uses of funds Grants awarded under this section shall be distributed directly to the State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe, and shall be used to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the jurisdiction of the grantee through evidence-based school safety programs that may include one or more of the following:

(1) Training school personnel and students to prevent student violence against others and self.

(2) The development and operation of anonymous reporting systems for threats of school violence, including mobile telephone applications, hotlines, and Internet websites.

(3) The development and operation of—

(A) school threat assessment and intervention teams that may include coordination with law enforcement agencies and school personnel; and

(B) specialized training for school officials in responding to mental health crises.

(4) Any other measure that, in the determination of the BJA Director, may provide a significant improvement in training, threat assessments and reporting, and violence prevention.

(5) Coordination with local law enforcement.

(6) Training for local law enforcement officers to prevent student violence against others and self.

(7) Placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures.

(8) Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency.

(9) Any other measure that, in the determination of the COPS Director, may provide a significant improvement in security.

(c) Contracts and subawards A State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe may, in using a grant under this subchapter for purposes authorized under subsection (b), use the grant to contract with or make 1 or more subawards to 1 or more—

(1) local educational agencies;

(2) nonprofit organizations, excluding schools; or

(3) units of local government or tribal organizations.

(d) Services and benefits for schools An entity that receives a subaward or contract under subsection (c) may use such funds to provide services or benefits described under subsection (b) to 1 or more schools.

(e) Preferential consideration In awarding grants under this subchapter, the COPS Director and the BJA Director shall give preferential consideration, if feasible, to an application from a jurisdiction that has a demonstrated need for improved security, has a demonstrated need for financial assistance, has evidenced the ability to make the improvements for which the grant amounts are sought, and will use evidence-based strategies and programs, such as those identified by the Comprehensive School Safety Initiative of the Department of Justice.

(f) Matching funds

(1) The portion of the costs of a program provided by a grant under subsection (a) may not exceed 75 percent.

(2) Any funds appropriated by Congress for the activities of any agency of an Indian tribal government or the Bureau of Indian Affairs performing law enforcement functions on any Indian lands may be used to provide the non-Federal share of a matching requirement funded under this subsection.

(3) The COPS Director and the BJA Director may each provide, in the guidelines implementing this section, for the requirement of paragraph (1) to be waived or altered in the case of a recipient with a financial need for such a waiver or alteration.

(g) Equitable distribution In awarding grants under this subchapter, the COPS Director and the BJA shall each ensure, to the extent practicable, an equitable geographic distribution among the regions of the United States and among urban, suburban, and rural areas.

(h) Administrative costs The COPS Director and the BJA Director may each reserve not more than 2 percent from amounts appropriated to carry out this subchapter for administrative costs.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2701](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2701), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1501](/us/stat/114/1501); amended [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1169(b)](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1169/b), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3122](/us/stat/119/3122); [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j), Aug. 12, 2006, [120 Stat. 767](/us/stat/120/767); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14010](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14010), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1297](/us/stat/130/1297); [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, § 502(1)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tV/s502/1), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1128](/us/stat/132/1128).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797a), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(A)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/A), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (in this section referred to as the ‘Director’) is authorized to make grants to States, units of local government, and Indian tribes to provide improved security, including the placement and use of metal detectors and other deterrent measures, at schools and on school grounds.”

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(B)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/B), inserted “evidence-based school safety programs that may include” after “through” in introductory provisions, added pars. (1) to (9), and struck out former pars. (1) to (6) which read as follows:

“(1) Placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures.

“(2) Security assessments.

“(3) Security training of personnel and students.

“(4) The development and operation of crisis intervention teams that may include coordination with law enforcement agencies and specialized training for school officials in responding to mental health crises.

“(5) Coordination with local law enforcement.

“(6) Any other measure that, in the determination of the Director, may provide a significant improvement in security.”

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(D)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/D), added subsecs. (c) and (d). Former subsecs. (c) and (d) redesignated (e) and (f), respectively.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/C), (E), redesignated subsec. (c) as (e), substituted “COPS Director and the BJA Director” for “Director” and “has evidenced” for “and has evidenced”, and inserted before period at end “, and will use evidence-based strategies and programs, such as those identified by the Comprehensive School Safety Initiative of the Department of Justice”. Former subsec. (e) redesignated (g).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/C), redesignated subsec. (d) as (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (h).

Subsec. (f)(1). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(F)(i)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/F/i), substituted “75 percent” for “50 percent”.

Subsec. (f)(3). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(F)(ii)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/F/ii), substituted “COPS Director and the BJA Director may each” for “Director may”.

Subsec. (g). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/C), (G), redesignated subsec. (e) as (g) and substituted “COPS Director and the BJA shall each” for “Director shall”.

Subsec. (h). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(1)(C)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/1/C), (H), redesignated subsec. (f) as (h) and substituted “COPS Director and the BJA Director may each” for “Director may”.

2016—Subsec. (b)(4) to (6). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) added par. (4) and redesignated former pars. (4) and (5) as (5) and (6), respectively.

2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)(1)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j/1), substituted “The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (in this section referred to as the ‘Director’)” for “The Attorney General, acting through the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services,”.

[Pub. L. 109–162](/us/pl/109/162) inserted “, acting through the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services,” after “The Attorney General”.

Subsecs. (b) to (f). [Pub. L. 109–271, § 8(j)(2)](/us/pl/109/271/s8/j/2), substituted “Director” for “Attorney General” wherever appearing.
