---
title: "§ 16211. Distributed energy and electric energy systems"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16211"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16211"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 921](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s921), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 864](/us/stat/119/864).)"
---
# § 16211. Distributed energy and electric energy systems

##### § 16211. Distributed energy and electric energy systems

(a) In general The Secretary shall carry out programs of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application on distributed energy resources and systems reliability and efficiency, to improve the reliability and efficiency of distributed energy resources and systems, integrating advanced energy technologies with grid connectivity, including activities described in this part. The programs shall address advanced energy technologies and systems and advanced grid reliability technologies.

(b) Authorization of appropriations

(1) Distributed energy and electric energy systems activities There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out distributed energy and electric energy systems activities, including activities authorized under this part—

(A) $240,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;

(B) $255,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and

(C) $273,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.

(2) Power delivery research initiative There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the Power Delivery Research Initiative under subsection 11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. 16215(e) of this title such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2009.

(c) Micro-cogeneration energy technology From amounts authorized under subsection (b), $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008 shall be available to carry out activities under [section 16213 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16213).

(d) High-voltage transmission lines From amounts authorized under subsection (b), $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2007 shall be available to carry out activities under [section 16215(g) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16215/g).

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 921](/us/pl/109/58/tIX/s921), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 864](/us/stat/119/864).)*
