---
title: "§ 1673f. Treatment of difference between deposit of estimated antidumping duty and final assessed duty under antidumping duty order"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1673f"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1673f"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 737, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 173](/us/stat/93/173); amended [Pub. L. 103–465, title II, § 219(c)(10)](/us/pl/103/465/tII/s219/c/10), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4857](/us/stat/108/4857); [Pub. L. 104–295, § 40](/us/pl/104/295/s40), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3541](/us/stat/110/3541).)"
---
# § 1673f. Treatment of difference between deposit of estimated antidumping duty and final assessed duty under antidumping duty order

##### § 1673f. Treatment of difference between deposit of estimated antidumping duty and final assessed duty under antidumping duty order

(a) Deposit of estimated antidumping duty under [section 1673b(d)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673b/d/1/B) If the amount of a cash deposit, or the amount of any bond or other security, required as security for an estimated antidumping duty under [section 1673b(d)(1)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673b/d/1/B) is different from the amount of the antidumping duty determined under an antidumping duty order published under [section 1673e of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e), then the difference for entries of merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption before notice of the affirmative determination of the Commission under [section 1673d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673d/b) is published shall be—

(1) disregarded, to the extent that the cash deposit, bond, or other security is lower than the duty under the order, or

(2) refunded or released, to the extent that the cash deposit, bond, or other security is higher than the duty under the order.

(b) Deposit of estimated antidumping duty under [section 1673e(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e/a/3) If the amount of an estimated antidumping duty deposited under [section 1673e(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e/a/3) is different from the amount of the antidumping duty determined under an antidumping duty order published under [section 1673e of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e), then the difference for entries of merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption after notice of the affirmative determination of the Commission under [section 1673d(b) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673d/b) is published shall be—

together with interest as provided by [section 1677g of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1677g).

(1) collected, to the extent that the deposit under [section 1673e(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e/a/3) is lower than the duty determined under the order, or

(2) refunded, to the extent that the deposit under [section 1673e(a)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1673e/a/3) is higher than the duty determined under the order,

*([June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), title VII, § 737, as added [Pub. L. 96–39, title I, § 101](/us/pl/96/39/tI/s101), July 26, 1979, [93 Stat. 173](/us/stat/93/173); amended [Pub. L. 103–465, title II, § 219(c)(10)](/us/pl/103/465/tII/s219/c/10), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4857](/us/stat/108/4857); [Pub. L. 104–295, § 40](/us/pl/104/295/s40), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3541](/us/stat/110/3541).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 104–295, § 40(1)](/us/pl/104/295/s40/1), substituted “deposit, or the amount of any bond or other security, required” for “deposit collected” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 104–295, § 40(2)](/us/pl/104/295/s40/2), substituted “that the cash deposit, bond, or other security” for “the cash deposit collected”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 104–295, § 40(3)](/us/pl/104/295/s40/3), substituted “refunded or released, to the extent that the cash deposit, bond, or other security” for “refunded, to the extent the cash deposit”.

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465) substituted “1673b(d)(1)(B)” for “1673b(d)(2)” in heading and text.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465) effective, except as otherwise provided, on the date on which the WTO Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), and applicable with respect to investigations, reviews, and inquiries initiated and petitions filed under specified provisions of this chapter after such date, see [section 291 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s291), set out as a note under [section 1671 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1671).
