---
title: "§ 14702. Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, colonel, or brigadier general"
identifier: "USC-T10-S14702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section14702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/108/2955); amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, § 521(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tV/s521/a), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/111/1734); [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title V, § 514(b), (c)(1), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4441](/us/stat/122/4441); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 511(b)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s511/b), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1875](/u"
---
# § 14702. Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, colonel, or brigadier general

##### § 14702. Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, colonel, or brigadier general

(a) Retention.— Notwithstanding the provisions of section 14506, 14507, or 14508 of this title, the Secretary of the military department concerned may, with the officer’s consent, retain on the reserve active-status list an officer in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, colonel, or brigadier general who is—

(1) an officer of the Army National Guard of the United States and assigned to a headquarters or headquarters detachment of a State; or

(2) a reserve officer of the Army or Air Force who, as a condition of continued employment as a National Guard or Reserve technician is required by the Secretary concerned to maintain membership in a Selected Reserve unit or organization.

(b) Separation for Age.— An officer may be retained under this section only so long as the officer continues to meet the conditions of paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a). An officer described in paragraph (1) of such subsection may not be retained under this section after the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age. An officer described in paragraph (2) of such subsection may not be retained under this section after the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age.

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1611](/us/pl/103/337/dA/tXVI/s1611), Oct. 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 2955](/us/stat/108/2955); amended [Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, § 521(a)](/us/pl/105/85/dA/tV/s521/a), Nov. 18, 1997, [111 Stat. 1734](/us/stat/111/1734); [Pub. L. 110–417](/us/pl/110/417), [div. A], title V, § 514(b), (c)(1), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4441](/us/stat/122/4441); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title V, § 511(b)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tV/s511/b), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 1875](/us/stat/138/1875).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) substituted “62” for “60”.

2008—[Pub. L. 110–417, § 514(c)(1)](/us/pl/110/417/s514/c/1), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as follows: “Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers until age 60”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 110–417, § 514(b)](/us/pl/110/417/s514/b), in heading, substituted “for Age” for “at Age 60” and, in text, substituted “paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a)” for “subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)” and “An officer described in paragraph (1) of such subsection may not be retained under this section after the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 62 years of age. An officer described in paragraph (2) of such subsection may not be retained under this section after the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 60 years of age.” for “An officer may not be retained under this section after the last day of the month in which the officer becomes 60 years of age.”

1997—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–85](/us/pl/105/85), in introductory provisions, substituted “section 14506, 14507, or 14508” for “section 14506 or 14507” and “colonel, or brigadier general” for “or colonel”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337](/us/pl/103/337/s1691/b/1), set out as a note under [section 10001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10001).
