---
title: "§ 1616p. Health professional chronic shortage demonstration programs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1616p"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1616p"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 123](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s123), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1616p. Health professional chronic shortage demonstration programs

##### § 1616p. Health professional chronic shortage demonstration programs

(a) Demonstration programs The Secretary, acting through the Service, may fund demonstration programs for Indian health programs to address the chronic shortages of health professionals.

(b) Purposes of programs The purposes of demonstration programs under subsection (a) shall be—

(1) to provide direct clinical and practical experience within an Indian health program to health profession students and residents from medical schools;

(2) to improve the quality of health care for Indians by ensuring access to qualified health professionals;

(3) to provide academic and scholarly opportunities for health professionals serving Indians by identifying all academic and scholarly resources of the region; and

(4) to provide training and support for alternative provider types, such as community health representatives, and community health aides.

(c) Advisory board The demonstration programs established pursuant to subsection (a) shall incorporate a program advisory board, which may be composed of representatives of tribal governments, Indian health programs, and Indian communities in the areas to be served by the demonstration programs.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 123](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s123), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 123 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s123) is based on section 112 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1616p, [Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 123](/us/pl/94/437/tI/s123), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 117(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tI/s117/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4544](/us/stat/106/4544), authorized appropriations through fiscal year 2000 to carry out this subchapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935). The repeal is based on section 101(b)(1) of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).
