---
title: "§ 1439a. Deposits in special fund; availability for all purposes of Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Federal Home Loan Bank Administration"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1439a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1439a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1943, ch. 145](/us/act/1943-06-26/ch145), title I, § 101, [57 Stat. 186](/us/stat/57/186); 1947 Reorg. Plan No. 3, eff. July 27, 1947, 12 F.R. 4981, [61 Stat. 954](/us/stat/61/954); [Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783), title I, § 109(a)(3), [69 Stat. 640](/us/stat/69/640).)"
---
# § 1439a. Deposits in special fund; availability for all purposes of Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Federal Home Loan Bank Administration

##### § 1439a. Deposits in special fund; availability for all purposes of Federal Home Loan Bank Board and Federal Home Loan Bank Administration

All moneys and funds heretofore deposited in the Treasury of the United States under the last sentence of section 1439 11 See References in Text note below. of this title (including unexpended balances of moneys appropriated therefrom for administrative expenses), and hereafter all moneys and funds which would, except for this provision, be so depositable thereunder, shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States in a special deposit account and shall be available, retroactively as well as prospectively, for expenditure for all purposes of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Federal Home Loan Bank Administration, subject to subsections (a) and (b) of [section 712a of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s712a).

*([June 26, 1943, ch. 145](/us/act/1943-06-26/ch145), title I, § 101, [57 Stat. 186](/us/stat/57/186); 1947 Reorg. Plan No. 3, eff. July 27, 1947, 12 F.R. 4981, [61 Stat. 954](/us/stat/61/954); [Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783), title I, § 109(a)(3), [69 Stat. 640](/us/stat/69/640).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1439 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1439), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, § 708](/us/pl/101/73/tVII/s708), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 418](/us/stat/103/418).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1944, and not as part of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

“Home Loan Bank Board” changed to “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” by [act Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, § 109(a)(3)](/us/act/1955-08-11/ch783/s109/a/3), which was classified to [section 1437(b) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1437/b) prior to the repeal of section 1437 by [Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, § 703(a)](/us/pl/101/73/tVII/s703/a), Aug. 9, 1989, [103 Stat. 415](/us/stat/103/415). Previously, “Home Loan Bank Board” had been substituted for “Federal Home Loan Bank Board” by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1947.

#### Transfer of Functions

Federal Home Loan Bank Board abolished and functions transferred, see sections 401 to 406 of [Pub. L. 101–73](/us/pl/101/73), set out as a note under [section 1437 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1437).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of the Treasury, see note set out under [section 55 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s55).
