---
title: "§ 1647. Other Federal programs"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1647"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1647"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–307, § 8](/us/pl/95/307/s8), June 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 356](/us/stat/92/356).)"
---
# § 1647. Other Federal programs

##### § 1647. Other Federal programs

(a) Repeal of statutory authorities relating to investigation, experiments, and tests in reforestation and forest products The Act of May 22, 1928, known as the McSweeney-McNary Act ([45 Stat. 699–702](/us/stat/45/699-702), as amended; [16 U.S.C. 581](/us/usc/t16/s581), 581a, 581b–581i), is hereby repealed.

(b) Force and effect of cooperative and other agreements under repealed statutory authorities relating to investigation, etc., in reforestation and forest products Contracts and cooperative and other agreements under the McSweeney-McNary Act shall remain in effect until revoked or amended by their own terms or under other provisions of law.

(c) Issuance of rules and regulations for implementation of provisions and coordination with agricultural research, extension, and teaching provisions The Secretary is authorized to issue such rules and regulations as the Secretary deems necessary to implement the provisions of this subchapter and to coordinate this subchapter with title XIV of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 [[7 U.S.C. 3101](/us/usc/t7/s3101) et seq.].

(d) Availability of funds appropriated under repealed statutory authorities relating to investigation, etc., in reforestation and forest products Funds appropriated under the authority of the McSweeney-McNary Act shall be available for expenditure for the programs authorized under this subchapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–307, § 8](/us/pl/95/307/s8), June 30, 1978, [92 Stat. 356](/us/stat/92/356).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, referred to in subsec. (c), is [Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 913](/us/stat/91/913). Title XIV of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, known as the “National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977”, is classified principally to chapter 64 (§ 3101 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s3101) and Tables.
