---
title: "§ 16161a. Regional clean hydrogen hubs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S16161a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section16161a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title VIII, § 813](/us/pl/109/58/tVIII/s813), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title III, § 40314(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIII/s40314/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/135/1008).)"
---
# § 16161a. Regional clean hydrogen hubs

##### § 16161a. Regional clean hydrogen hubs

(a) Definition of regional clean hydrogen hub In this section, the term “regional clean hydrogen hub” means a network of clean hydrogen producers, potential clean hydrogen consumers, and connective infrastructure located in close proximity.

(b) Establishment of program The Secretary shall establish a program to support the development of at least 4 regional clean hydrogen hubs that—

(1) demonstrably aid the achievement of the clean hydrogen production standard developed under [section 16166(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16166/a);

(2) demonstrate the production, processing, delivery, storage, and end-use of clean hydrogen; and

(3) can be developed into a national clean hydrogen network to facilitate a clean hydrogen economy.

(c) Selection of regional clean hydrogen hubs

(1) Solicitation of proposals Not later than 180 days after November 15, 2021, the Secretary shall solicit proposals for regional clean hydrogen hubs.

(2) Selection of hubs Not later than 1 year after the deadline for the submission of proposals under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall select at least 4 regional clean hydrogen hubs to be developed under subsection (b).

(3) Criteria The Secretary shall select regional clean hydrogen hubs under paragraph (2) using the following criteria:

(A) Feedstock diversity To the maximum extent practicable—

(i) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the production of clean hydrogen from fossil fuels;

(ii) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the production of clean hydrogen from renewable energy; and

(iii) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the production of clean hydrogen from nuclear energy.

(B) End-use diversity To the maximum extent practicable—

(i) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the end-use of clean hydrogen in the electric power generation sector;

(ii) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the end-use of clean hydrogen in the industrial sector;

(iii) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the end-use of clean hydrogen in the residential and commercial heating sector; and

(iv) at least 1 regional clean hydrogen hub shall demonstrate the end-use of clean hydrogen in the transportation sector.

(C) Geographic diversity To the maximum extent practicable, each regional clean hydrogen hub—

(i) shall be located in a different region of the United States; and

(ii) shall use energy resources that are abundant in that region.

(D) Hubs in natural gas-producing regions To the maximum extent practicable, at least 2 regional clean hydrogen hubs shall be located in the regions of the United States with the greatest natural gas resources.

(E) Employment The Secretary shall give priority to regional clean hydrogen hubs that are likely to create opportunities for skilled training and long-term employment to the greatest number of residents of the region.

(F) Additional criteria The Secretary may take into consideration other criteria that, in the judgment of the Secretary, are necessary or appropriate to carry out this subchapter 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.

(4) Funding of regional clean hydrogen hubs The Secretary may make grants to each regional clean hydrogen hub selected under paragraph (2) to accelerate commercialization of, and demonstrate the production, processing, delivery, storage, and end-use of, clean hydrogen.

(d) Authorization of appropriations There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $8,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title VIII, § 813](/us/pl/109/58/tVIII/s813), as added [Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title III, § 40314(2)](/us/pl/117/58/dD/tIII/s40314/2), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1008](/us/stat/135/1008).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 813 of Pub. L. 109–58](/us/pl/109/58/s813) was renumbered section 818 and is classified to [section 16162 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16162).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Wage Rate Requirements

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of [Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58), including authority of Secretary of Labor, see [section 18851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s18851).
