---
title: "§ 15951. Findings and definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S15951"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section15951"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 391](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s391), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 748](/us/stat/119/748).)"
---
# § 15951. Findings and definitions

##### § 15951. Findings and definitions

(a) Findings Congress finds that—

(1) it serves the national interest to increase petroleum refining capacity for gasoline, heating oil, diesel fuel, jet fuel, kerosene, and petrochemical feedstocks wherever located within the United States, to bring more supply to the markets for the use of the American people;

(2) United States demand for refined petroleum products currently exceeds the country’s petroleum refining capacity to produce such products;

(3) this excess demand has been met with increased imports;

(4) due to lack of capacity, refined petroleum product imports are expected to grow from 7.9 percent to 10.7 percent of total refined product by 2025;

(5) refiners are still subject to significant environmental and other regulations and face several new requirements under the Clean Air Act ([42 U.S.C. 7401](/us/usc/t42/s7401) et seq.) over the next decade; and

(6) better coordination of Federal and State regulatory reviews may help facilitate siting and construction of new refineries to meet the demand in the United States for refined products.

(b) Definitions In this part:

(1) Administrator The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) State The term “State” means—

(A) a State;

(B) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and

(C) any other territory or possession of the United States.

*([Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 391](/us/pl/109/58/tIII/s391), Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 748](/us/stat/119/748).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Clean Air Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), is [act July 14, 1955, ch. 360](/us/act/1955-07-14/ch360), [69 Stat. 322](/us/stat/69/322), which is classified generally to chapter 85 (§ 7401 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7401) and Tables.
