---
title: "§ 1589b. Establishment of income limitations for occupancy of housing; effect on prior tenants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1589b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1589b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 862](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch862), title VI, § 612, as added [Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title VI, § 603(d), [65 Stat. 314](/us/stat/65/314); amended [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)"
---
# § 1589b. Establishment of income limitations for occupancy of housing; effect on prior tenants

##### § 1589b. Establishment of income limitations for occupancy of housing; effect on prior tenants

The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development notwithstanding any other provisions of subchapters II to VII of this chapter or any other law except provisions hereafter enacted expressly in amendment hereof, is authorized to establish income limitations for occupancy of any housing held by him under subchapters II to VII of this chapter and, giving consideration to the ability of such tenants to obtain other housing accommodations, to require tenants, admitted to occupancy prior to the establishment of such income limitations and who have incomes in excess of limitations established by him, to vacate such housing.

*([Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 862](/us/act/1940-10-14/ch862), title VI, § 612, as added [Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378](/us/act/1951-09-01/ch378), title VI, § 603(d), [65 Stat. 314](/us/stat/65/314); amended [Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a)](/us/pl/89/174/s5/a), Sept. 9, 1965, [79 Stat. 669](/us/stat/79/669).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subchapters III and VI of this chapter, referred to in text, were comprised of sections 1531 to 1536 and 1571 to 1576, respectively, of this title and have been omitted from the Code. For further details, see note set out under [section 1522 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1522).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under [section 1581 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1581).
