---
title: "§ 1703. Broadband DATA maps"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60103](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60103), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1205](/us/stat/135/1205).)"
---
# § 1703. Broadband DATA maps

##### § 1703. Broadband DATA maps

(a) Definition In this section, the term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.

(b) Provision of information A broadband provider shall provide the Commission with any information, in the format, type, or specification requested by the Commission, necessary to augment the collection of data by the Commission under—

(1) title VIII of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 641](/us/usc/t47/s641) et seq.); or

(2) the Form 477 data collection program.

(c) Notice of initial broadband DATA collection filing deadline The Commission—

(1) shall provide notice to broadband providers not later than 60 days before the initial deadline for submission of data under section 802(a)(1)(A) of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 642(a)(1)(A)](/us/usc/t47/s642/a/1/A)); and

(2) notwithstanding any prior decision of the Commission to the contrary, shall not be required to provide notice not later than 6 months before the initial deadline described in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, § 60103](/us/pl/117/58/dF/tI/s60103), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1205](/us/stat/135/1205).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064). Title VIII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter VII (§ 641 et seq.) of chapter 5 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 60103 of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s60103). Subsecs. (d) and (e) of [section 60103 of Pub. L. 117–58](/us/pl/117/58/s60103) amended [section 642 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s642).
