---
title: "§ 3611. Cryptologic research grant program"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3611"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3611"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 86–36, § 13](/us/pl/86/36/s13), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1158](/us/stat/95/1158).)"
---
# § 3611. Cryptologic research grant program

##### § 3611. Cryptologic research grant program

(a) Authorization The Director of the National Security Agency may make grants to private individuals and institutions for the conduct of cryptologic research. An application for a grant under this section may not be approved unless the Director determines that the award of the grant would be clearly consistent with the national security.

(b) Conduct of program The grant program established by subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance with chapter 63 of title 31 to the extent that such chapter is consistent with and in accordance with [section 3605 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3605).

(c) Authority limited to availability of appropriated funds The authority of the Director to make grants under this section is effective for any fiscal year only to the extent that appropriated funds are available for such purpose.

*([Pub. L. 86–36, § 13](/us/pl/86/36/s13), as added [Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/97/89/tVI/s603), Dec. 4, 1981, [95 Stat. 1158](/us/stat/95/1158).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified in a note under [section 402 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402) prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

In subsec. (b), “chapter 63 of title 31” substituted for “the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977 ([41 U.S.C. 501](/us/usc/t41/s501) et seq.)” and “such chapter” substituted for “such Act” on authority of [Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b)](/us/pl/97/258/s4/b), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1067](/us/stat/96/1067), the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1981, see [section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89](/us/pl/97/89/s806), set out as a note under [section 1621 of Title 10](/us/usc/t10/s1621), Armed Forces.
