---
title: "§ 6914b. Degradable plastic ring carriers; definitions"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6914b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6914b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–556, title I, § 102](/us/pl/100/556/tI/s102), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/102/2779).)"
---
# § 6914b. Degradable plastic ring carriers; definitions

##### § 6914b. Degradable plastic ring carriers; definitions

(1) the term “regulated item” means any plastic ring carrier device that contains at least one hole greater than 1¾ inches in diameter which is made, used, or designed for the purpose of packaging, transporting, or carrying multipackaged cans or bottles, and which is of a size, shape, design, or type capable, when discarded, of becoming entangled with fish or wildlife; and

(2) the term “naturally degradable material” means a material which, when discarded, will be reduced to environmentally benign subunits under the action of normal environmental forces, such as, among others, biological decomposition, photodegradation, or hydrolysis.

*([Pub. L. 100–556, title I, § 102](/us/pl/100/556/tI/s102), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/102/2779).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This title, referred to in text, is title I of [Pub. L. 100–556](/us/pl/100/556), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/102/2779), which enacted sections 6914b and 6914b–1 of this title, and provisions set out as a note under [section 6914b of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6914b). For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Solid Waste Disposal Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Congressional Findings

[Pub. L. 100–556, title I, § 101](/us/pl/100/556/tI/s101), Oct. 28, 1988, [102 Stat. 2779](/us/stat/102/2779), provided that: “The Congress finds that— “(1) plastic ring carrier devices have been found in large quantities in the marine environment; “(2) fish and wildlife have been known to have become entangled in plastic ring carriers; “(3) nondegradable plastic ring carrier devices can remain intact in the marine environment for decades, posing a threat to fish and wildlife; and “(4) 16 States have enacted laws requiring that plastic ring carrier devices be made from degradable material in order to reduce litter and to protect fish and wildlife.”
