---
title: "§ 1602. Declaration of national Indian health policy"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1602"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1602"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, § 3](/us/pl/94/437/s3), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/90/1401); [Pub. L. 102–573, § 3(b)](/us/pl/102/573/s3/b), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4526](/us/stat/106/4526); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1602. Declaration of national Indian health policy

##### § 1602. Declaration of national Indian health policy

(1) to ensure the highest possible health status for Indians and urban Indians and to provide all resources necessary to effect that policy;

(2) to raise the health status of Indians and urban Indians to at least the levels set forth in the goals contained within the Healthy People 2010 initiative or successor objectives;

(3) to ensure maximum Indian participation in the direction of health care services so as to render the persons administering such services and the services themselves more responsive to the needs and desires of Indian communities;

(4) to increase the proportion of all degrees in the health professions and allied and associated health professions awarded to Indians so that the proportion of Indian health professionals in each Service area is raised to at least the level of that of the general population;

(5) to require that all actions under this chapter shall be carried out with active and meaningful consultation with Indian tribes and tribal organizations, and conference with urban Indian organizations, to implement this chapter and the national policy of Indian self-determination;

(6) to ensure that the United States and Indian tribes work in a government-to-government relationship to ensure quality health care for all tribal members; and

(7) to provide funding for programs and facilities operated by Indian tribes and tribal organizations in amounts that are not less than the amounts provided to programs and facilities operated directly by the Service.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, § 3](/us/pl/94/437/s3), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/90/1401); [Pub. L. 102–573, § 3(b)](/us/pl/102/573/s3/b), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4526](/us/stat/106/4526); [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in par. (5), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437), Sept. 30, 1976, [90 Stat. 1400](/us/stat/90/1400), known as the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1601) and Tables.

#### Codification

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) is based on section 103 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Amendments

2010—[Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to declaration of health objectives.

1992—[Pub. L. 102–573](/us/pl/102/573) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Congress hereby declares that it is the policy of this Nation, in fulfillment of its special responsibilities and legal obligation to the American Indian people, to meet the national goal of providing the highest possible health status to Indians and to provide existing Indian health services with all resources necessary to effect that policy.”
