---
title: "§ 1032b. Application requirements"
identifier: "USC-T20-S1032b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title20-section1032b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "20"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 233](/us/pl/89/329/tII/s233), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(3)](/us/pl/110/315/tII/s201/3), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3157](/us/stat/122/3157).)"
---
# § 1032b. Application requirements

##### § 1032b. Application requirements

(1) A description of the project to be carried out with the grant, including how the project will—

(A) develop a long-term partnership focused on effective teaching with modern digital tools and content that substantially connects preservice preparation of teacher candidates with high-need schools; or

(B) transform the way departments, schools, and colleges of education teach classroom technology integration, including the principles of universal design, to teacher candidates.

(2) A demonstration of—

(A) the commitment, including the financial commitment, of each of the members of the consortium for the proposed project; and

(B) the support of the leadership of each organization that is a member of the consortium for the proposed project.

(3) A description of how each member of the consortium will participate in the project.

(4) A description of how the State educational agency or local educational agency will incorporate the project into the agency’s technology plan, if such a plan already exists.

(5) A description of how the project will be continued after Federal funds are no longer available under this subpart for the project.

(6) A description of how the project will incorporate—

(A) State teacher technology standards; and

(B) State student technology standards.

(7) A plan for the evaluation of the project, which shall include benchmarks to monitor progress toward specific project objectives.

*([Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 233](/us/pl/89/329/tII/s233), as added [Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(3)](/us/pl/110/315/tII/s201/3), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3157](/us/stat/122/3157).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 233 of Pub. L. 89–329](/us/pl/89/329/s233) was classified to [section 1043 of this title](/us/usc/t20/s1043), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 96–374](/us/pl/96/374).
