---
title: "§ 3314. Report on national security systems"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tVI/s603), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 829](/us/stat/131/829).)"
---
# § 3314. Report on national security systems

##### § 3314. Report on national security systems

(a) Appropriate committees of Congress defined In this section, the term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—

(1) the congressional intelligence committees;

(2) the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(3) the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(b) Report Not later than 120 days after May 5, 2017, and annually thereafter, the Director of the National Security Agency, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on national security systems.

(c) Content Each report submitted under subsection (b) shall include information related to—

(1) national security systems or components thereof that have been decertified and are still in operational use;

(2) extension requests and the current status of any national security systems still in use or components thereof that have been decertified and are still in use;

(3) national security systems known to not be in compliance with the policies, principles, standards, and guidelines issued by the Committee on National Security Systems established pursuant to National Security Directive 42, signed by the President on July 5, 1990; and

(4) organizations which have not provided access or information to the Director of the National Security Agency that is adequate to enable the Director to make a determination as to whether such organizations are in compliance with the policies, principles, standards, and guidelines issued by such Committee on National Security Systems.

*([Pub. L. 115–31, div. N, title VI, § 603](/us/pl/115/31/dN/tVI/s603), May 5, 2017, [131 Stat. 829](/us/stat/131/829).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see [section 2 of div. N of Pub. L. 115–31](/us/pl/115/31/dN/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
