---
title: "§ 80a–19. Payments or distributions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S80a–19"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section80a–19"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 19, [54 Stat. 821](/us/stat/54/821); [Pub. L. 91–547, § 11](/us/pl/91/547/s11), Dec. 14, 1970, [84 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/84/1422); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095).)"
---
# § 80a–19. Payments or distributions

##### § 80a–19. Payments or distributions

(a) Dividends; restriction; exception It shall be unlawful for any registered investment company to pay any dividend, or to make any distribution in the nature of a dividend payment, wholly or partly from any source other than—

unless such payment is accompanied by a written statement which adequately discloses the source or sources of such payment. The Commission may prescribe the form of such statement by rules and regulations in the public interest and for the protection of investors.

(1) such company’s accumulated undistributed net income, determined in accordance with good accounting practice and not including profits or losses realized upon the sale of securities or other properties; or

(2) such company’s net income so determined for the current or preceding fiscal year;

(b) Long-term capital gains; limitation It shall be unlawful in contravention of such rules, regulations, or orders as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors for any registered investment company to distribute long-term capital gains, as defined in title 26, more often than once every twelve months.

*([Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686](/us/act/1940-08-22/ch686), title I, § 19, [54 Stat. 821](/us/stat/54/821); [Pub. L. 91–547, § 11](/us/pl/91/547/s11), Dec. 14, 1970, [84 Stat. 1422](/us/stat/84/1422); [Pub. L. 99–514, § 2](/us/pl/99/514/s2), Oct. 22, 1986, [100 Stat. 2095](/us/stat/100/2095).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–514](/us/pl/99/514) substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–547](/us/pl/91/547) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 91–547](/us/pl/91/547) effective on expiration of one year after Dec. 14, 1970, see [section 30(1) of Pub. L. 91–547](/us/pl/91/547/s30/1), set out as a note under [section 80a–52 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s80a–52).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of Securities and Exchange Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 10 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, [64 Stat. 1265](/us/stat/64/1265), set out under [section 78d of this title](/us/usc/t15/s78d).
