---
title: "§ 2426. Discrimination against United States personnel"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2426"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2426"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 666, as added [Pub. L. 94–161, title III, § 318](/us/pl/94/161/tIII/s318), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 868](/us/stat/89/868).)"
---
# § 2426. Discrimination against United States personnel

##### § 2426. Discrimination against United States personnel

(a) Assignment of personnel on basis of ability and experience The President shall not take into account, in assigning officers and employees of the United States to carry out any economic development assistance programs funded under this chapter in any foreign country, the race, religion, national origin, or sex of any such officer or employee. Such assignments shall be made solely on the basis of ability and relevant experience.

(b) Prohibition on use of funds in country practicing discrimination Effective six months after December 20, 1975, or on such earlier date as the President may determine, none of the funds made available under this chapter may be used to provide economic development assistance to any country which objects to the presence of any officer or employee of the United States who is present in such country for the purpose of carrying out any program of economic development assistance authorized by the provisions of this chapter on the basis of the race, religion, national origin, or sex of such officer or employee.

(c) Rules and regulations The Secretary of State shall promulgate such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. III, § 666, as added [Pub. L. 94–161, title III, § 318](/us/pl/94/161/tIII/s318), Dec. 20, 1975, [89 Stat. 868](/us/stat/89/868).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424), known as the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
