---
title: "§ 10554. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10554"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10554"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2704](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2704), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1502](/us/stat/114/1502); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, § 502(4)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tV/s502/4), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/132/1131).)"
---
# § 10554. Definitions

##### § 10554. Definitions

(1) the term “school” means an elementary or secondary school, including a Bureau-funded school (as defined in [section 2021 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s2021));

(2) the term “unit of local government” means a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general government below the State level;

(3) the term “Indian tribe” has the same meaning as in [section 5304(e) of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s5304/e);

(4) the term “evidence-based” means a program, practice, technology, or equipment that—

(A) demonstrates a statistically significant effect on relevant outcomes based on—

(i) strong evidence from not less than 1 well-designed and well-implemented experimental study;

(ii) moderate evidence from not less than 1 well-designed and well-implemented quasi-experimental study; or

(iii) promising evidence from not less than 1 well-designed and well-implemented correlational study with statistical controls for selection bias;

(B) demonstrates a rationale based on high-quality research findings or positive evaluation that such program, practice, technology, or equipment is likely to improve relevant outcomes, and includes ongoing efforts to examine the effects of the program, practice, technology, or equipment; or

(C) in the case of technology or equipment, demonstrates that use of the technology or equipment is—

(i) consistent with best practices for school security, including—

(I) applicable standards for school security established by a Federal or State government agency; and

(II) findings and recommendations of public commissions and task forces established to make recommendations or set standards for school security; and

(ii) compliant with all applicable codes, including building and life safety codes; and

(5) the term “tribal organization” has the same meaning given the term in section 5304(*l*) of title 25.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2704](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2704), as added [Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title I, § 1108(b)](/us/pl/106/386/dB/tI/s1108/b), Oct. 28, 2000, [114 Stat. 1502](/us/stat/114/1502); amended [Pub. L. 115–141, div. S, title V, § 502(4)](/us/pl/115/141/dS/tV/s502/4), Mar. 23, 2018, [132 Stat. 1131](/us/stat/132/1131).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797d of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797d), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2018—Par. (1). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(4)(A)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/4/A), substituted “an” for “a public” and inserted “, including a Bureau-funded school (as defined in [section 2021 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s2021))” after “secondary school”.

Pars. (4), (5). [Pub. L. 115–141, § 502(4)(B)](/us/pl/115/141/s502/4/B)–(D), added pars. (4) and (5).
