---
title: "§ 718b–1. Disposition of unsold stamps"
identifier: "USC-T16-S718b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section718b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([July 30, 1956, ch. 782, § 3(a)](/us/act/1956-07-30/ch782/s3/a), (b), formerly § 3(a), [70 Stat. 722](/us/stat/70/722); [Pub. L. 92–214, § 3](/us/pl/92/214/s3), Dec. 22, 1971, [85 Stat. 777](/us/stat/85/777); renumbered § 3(a), (b) and amended [Pub. L. 109–266, § 10(i)(2)](/us/pl/109/266/s10/i/2), Aug. 3, 2006, [120 Stat. 679](/us/stat/120/679).)"
---
# § 718b–1. Disposition of unsold stamps

##### § 718b–1. Disposition of unsold stamps

(a) Disposition of unsold stamps A Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp shall be transferred to the Postal Service or the Secretary of the Interior (or a designee) for sale to a collector if the stamp—

(1) has not been sold by the end of the hunting year (as that term is defined in [section 718j of this title](/us/usc/t16/s718j)) during which the stamp is issued; and

(2) as determined by the Postal Service or the Secretary of the Interior—

(A) is appropriate to supply a market for sale to collectors; and

(B) is in suitable condition for sale to a collector.

(b) Surplus stock The Postal Service or the Secretary of the Interior may destroy any surplus stock of Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamps at such time and in such manner as the Postal Service or the Secretary of the Interior determines to be appropriate.

*([July 30, 1956, ch. 782, § 3(a)](/us/act/1956-07-30/ch782/s3/a), (b), formerly § 3(a), [70 Stat. 722](/us/stat/70/722); [Pub. L. 92–214, § 3](/us/pl/92/214/s3), Dec. 22, 1971, [85 Stat. 777](/us/stat/85/777); renumbered § 3(a), (b) and amended [Pub. L. 109–266, § 10(i)(2)](/us/pl/109/266/s10/i/2), Aug. 3, 2006, [120 Stat. 679](/us/stat/120/679).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of act Mar. 16, 1934, which comprises this subchapter.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 3(b) of [act July 30, 1956, ch. 782](/us/act/1956-07-30/ch782), [70 Stat. 722](/us/stat/70/722), amended [section 718b of this title](/us/usc/t16/s718b) prior to being redesignated 3(c) by [section 10(i)(1) of Pub. L. 109–266](/us/pl/109/266/s10/i/1).

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–266](/us/pl/109/266) inserted section catchline and substituted subsecs. (a) and (b) for former text which read: “On or after July 30, 1956, such quantity of migratory-bird hunting stamps, not sold at the end of the fiscal year for which issued, as determined by the Postal Service to be (1) required to supply the market for sale to collectors, and (2) in suitable condition for such sale to collectors, shall be turned over to the Philatelic Agency and therein placed on sale. Any surplus stock of such migratory-bird hunting stamps may be destroyed in such manner as the Postal Service shall direct.”

1971—[Pub. L. 92–214](/us/pl/92/214) substituted “Postal Service” for “Postmaster General”.
