---
title: "§ 6137. Penalties"
identifier: "USC-T40-S6137"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section6137"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1183](/us/stat/116/1183); [Pub. L. 108–356, § 2](/us/pl/108/356/s2), Oct. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 1416](/us/stat/118/1416).)"
---
# § 6137. Penalties

##### § 6137. Penalties

(a) In General.— An individual who violates this subchapter, or a regulation prescribed under [section 6102 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s6102), shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both.

(b) Venue and Procedure.— Prosecution for a violation described in subsection (a) shall be in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, on information by the United States Attorney or an Assistant United States Attorney.

(c) Offenses Involving Property Damage Over $100.— If during the commission of a violation described in subsection (a), public property is damaged in an amount exceeding $100, the period of imprisonment for the offense may be not more than five years.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1183](/us/stat/116/1183); [Pub. L. 108–356, § 2](/us/pl/108/356/s2), Oct. 21, 2004, [118 Stat. 1416](/us/stat/118/1416).)*

In subsection (a), the words “fined under title 18” are substituted for “fined not more than $100” for consistency with chapter 227 of title 18.

In subsection (b), the words “Superior Court of the District of Columbia” are substituted for “Municipal Court for the District of Columbia” [subsequently changed to “District of Columbia Court of General Sessions” because of sections 1 and 7 of the Act of July 8, 1963 ([Public Law 88–60](/us/pl/88/60), [77 Stat. 77](/us/stat/77/77), 78)] because of section 155(a) of the District of Columbia Court Reorganization Act of 1970 ([Public Law 91–358](/us/pl/91/358), [85 Stat. 570](/us/stat/85/570)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6137 | 40:13m. | Aug. 18, 1949, ch. 479, § 8, 63 Stat. 617. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2004—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–356](/us/pl/108/356) added subsec. (b) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (b). Text read as follows: “Prosecution for a violation described in subsection (a) shall be in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, on information by the United States Attorney or an Assistant United States Attorney.”
