---
title: "§ 4370. Reimbursement for use of facilities"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4370"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4370"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–229, § 5](/us/pl/96/229/s5), Apr. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 328](/us/stat/94/328).)"
---
# § 4370. Reimbursement for use of facilities

##### § 4370. Reimbursement for use of facilities

(a) Authority to allow outside groups or individuals to use research and test facilities; reimbursement The Administrator is authorized to allow appropriate use of special Environmental Protection Agency research and test facilities by outside groups or individuals and to receive reimbursement or fees for costs incurred thereby when he finds this to be in the public interest. Such reimbursement or fees are to be used by the Agency to defray the costs of use by outside groups or individuals.

(b) Rules and regulations The Administrator may promulgate regulations to cover such use of Agency facilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting, safety, and laboratory practices.

(c) Waiver of reimbursement by Administrator When he finds it is in the public interest the Administrator may waive reimbursement or fees for outside use of Agency facilities by nonprofit private or public entities.

*([Pub. L. 96–229, § 5](/us/pl/96/229/s5), Apr. 7, 1980, [94 Stat. 328](/us/stat/94/328).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration Authorization Act of 1980, and not as part of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 which comprises this chapter.
