---
title: "§ 6532. Death, resignation, or disability of Secretary and Assistant Secretary of Senate; Financial Clerk deemed successor as disbursing officer"
identifier: "USC-T2-S6532"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section6532"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Mar. 3, 1926, ch. 44, § 1](/us/act/1926-03-03/ch44/s1), [44 Stat. 162](/us/stat/44/162); [Pub. L. 91–105, § 2](/us/pl/91/105/s2), Oct. 31, 1969, [83 Stat. 169](/us/stat/83/169); [Pub. L. 91–382](/us/pl/91/382), Aug. 18, 1970, [84 Stat. 810](/us/stat/84/810); [Pub. L. 92–310, title II, § 220(g)](/us/pl/92/310/tII/s220/g), June 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 204](/us/stat/86/204); [Pub. L. 98–367, title I, § 2(a)](/us/pl/98/367/tI/s2/a), July 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 474](/us/stat/98/474).)"
---
# § 6532. Death, resignation, or disability of Secretary and Assistant Secretary of Senate; Financial Clerk deemed successor as disbursing officer

##### § 6532. Death, resignation, or disability of Secretary and Assistant Secretary of Senate; Financial Clerk deemed successor as disbursing officer

For any period during which both the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary of the Senate are unable (because of death, resignation, or disability) to discharge such Secretary’s duties as disbursing officer of the Senate, the Financial Clerk of the Senate shall be deemed to be the successor of such Secretary as disbursing officer.

*([Mar. 3, 1926, ch. 44, § 1](/us/act/1926-03-03/ch44/s1), [44 Stat. 162](/us/stat/44/162); [Pub. L. 91–105, § 2](/us/pl/91/105/s2), Oct. 31, 1969, [83 Stat. 169](/us/stat/83/169); [Pub. L. 91–382](/us/pl/91/382), Aug. 18, 1970, [84 Stat. 810](/us/stat/84/810); [Pub. L. 92–310, title II, § 220(g)](/us/pl/92/310/tII/s220/g), June 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 204](/us/stat/86/204); [Pub. L. 98–367, title I, § 2(a)](/us/pl/98/367/tI/s2/a), July 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 474](/us/stat/98/474).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 64a of this title](/us/usc/t2/s64a) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

1984—[Pub. L. 98–367](/us/pl/98/367) substituted “For any period during which both the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary of the Senate are unable (because of death, resignation, or disability) to discharge such Secretary’s duties as disbursing officer of the Senate, the Financial Clerk of the Senate shall be deemed to be the successor of such Secretary as disbursing officer” for “In the event of the death, resignation, or disability of the Secretary of the Senate, the Financial Clerk of the Senate shall be deemed his successor as a disbursing officer and he shall serve as such disbursing officer until the end of the quarterly period during which a new Secretary shall have been elected and qualified, or such disability shall have been ended”.

1972—[Pub. L. 92–310](/us/pl/92/310) struck out provisions which related to the bond of the Financial Clerk.

1970—[Pub. L. 91–382](/us/pl/91/382) substituted “Financial Clerk” for “Comptroller”.

1969—[Pub. L. 91–105](/us/pl/91/105) substituted the Comptroller of the Senate for the Financial Clerk of the Senate as the successor of the Secretary of the Senate in the event of the death, resignation, or disability of the Secretary.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1970 Amendment

[Pub. L. 91–382](/us/pl/91/382) provided that the amendment made by [Pub. L. 91–382](/us/pl/91/382) is effective Aug. 1, 1970.

#### Certification of Disability

Secretary of the Senate to be considered as disabled for purposes of this section only during such period of time as the Majority and Minority Leaders and the President pro tempore of the Senate certify jointly to the Senate that he is unable to perform his duties, see [section 6533 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s6533).
