---
title: "§ 1310. American agriculture protection program"
identifier: "USC-T7-S1310"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section1310"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–113, title X, § 1002](/us/pl/95/113/tX/s1002), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 950](/us/stat/91/950).)"
---
# § 1310. American agriculture protection program

##### § 1310. American agriculture protection program

(a) Determination of short supply; suspension of commercial export sales; parity price Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever the President or any other member of the executive branch of the Federal Government causes to be suspended, based upon a determination of short supply, the commercial export sales of any commodity, as defined in subsection (c) of this section, to any country or area with which the United States otherwise continues commercial trade, the Secretary of Agriculture shall, on the day the suspension is initiated, set the loan level for such commodity under the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended [[7 U.S.C. 1421](/us/usc/t7/s1421) et seq.], if a loan program is in effect for the commodity, at 90 per centum of the parity price for the commodity, as such parity price is determined on the day the suspension is initiated.

(b) Duration of loan level Any loan level established pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall remain in effect as long as the suspension of commercial export sales described in subsection (a) remains in effect.

(c) “Commodity” defined For purposes of this section, the term “commodity” shall include any of the following: wheat, corn, grain sorghum, soybeans, oats, rye, barley, rice, flaxseed, and cotton.

*([Pub. L. 95–113, title X, § 1002](/us/pl/95/113/tX/s1002), Sept. 29, 1977, [91 Stat. 950](/us/stat/91/950).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Agricultural Act of 1949, referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Oct. 31, 1949, ch. 792](/us/act/1949-10-31/ch792), [63 Stat. 1051](/us/stat/63/1051), which is classified principally to chapter 35A (§ 1421 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1421 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1421) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, and not as part of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1977, see [section 1901 of Pub. L. 95–113](/us/pl/95/113/s1901), set out as an Effective Date of 1977 Amendment note under [section 1307 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1307).
