---
title: "§ 7108. Limitation on authority under sections 7105–7107"
identifier: "USC-T31-S7108"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title31-section7108"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "31"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/96/1039).)"
---
# § 7108. Limitation on authority under sections 7105–7107

##### § 7108. Limitation on authority under sections 7105–7107

(1) when a problem cannot be adequately solved through other action under this chapter or other law;

(2) when necessary to promote expeditious processing of applications or effective and efficient administration of the project; and

(3) in a way consistent with protecting the interest of the United States Government and with the program purposes and requirements of law.

*([Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1039](/us/stat/96/1039).)*

In the section, the words “act under” are substituted for “use the authorities described in”, and the words “when necessary” are substituted for “that they are applied only as necessary”, to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “head of an executive agency acts under those sections only” are substituted for “the authorities are limited in use to” for clarity. The words “These authorities shall be exercised only”, “Where appropriate to further the purposes of this chapter, and subject to the conditions prescribed in this section”, “(relating to the establishment of uniform technical or administrative requirements, delegation of powers and responsibilities, and establishment of joint management funds)”, “include criteria or procedures to”, and “that they are applied”, are omitted as unnecessary because of the restatement.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 7108 | 42:4254. | Dec. 5, 1974, Pub. L. 93–510, § 5, 88 Stat. 1605. |
