---
title: "§ 6613. Functions of the Director"
identifier: "USC-T42-S6613"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section6613"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–282, title II, § 204](/us/pl/94/282/tII/s204), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 463](/us/stat/90/463); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1712(1)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1712/1), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/116/2320).)"
---
# § 6613. Functions of the Director

##### § 6613. Functions of the Director

(a) The primary function of the Director is to provide, within the Executive Office of the President, advice on the scientific, engineering, and technological aspects of issues that require attention at the highest levels of Government.

(b) In addition to such other functions and activities as the President may assign, the Director shall—

(1) advise the President of scientific and technological considerations involved in areas of national concern including, but not limited to, the economy, national security, homeland security, health, foreign relations, the environment, and the technological recovery and use of resources;

(2) evaluate the scale, quality, and effectiveness of the Federal effort in science and technology and advise on appropriate actions;

(3) advise the President on scientific and technological considerations with regard to Federal budgets, assist the Office of Management and Budget with an annual review and analysis of funding proposed for research and development in budgets of all Federal agencies, and aid the Office of Management and Budget and the agencies throughout the budget development process; and

(4) assist the President in providing general leadership and coordination of the research and development programs of the Federal Government.

*([Pub. L. 94–282, title II, § 204](/us/pl/94/282/tII/s204), May 11, 1976, [90 Stat. 463](/us/stat/90/463); [Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1712(1)](/us/pl/107/296/tXVII/s1712/1), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/116/2320).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2002—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) inserted “homeland security,” after “national security,”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 101 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s101), Domestic Security.
