---
title: "§ 40115. Withholding information"
identifier: "USC-T49-S40115"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section40115"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/108/1111).)"
---
# § 40115. Withholding information

##### § 40115. Withholding information

(a) Objections to Disclosure.—

(1) A person may object to the public disclosure of information—

(A) in a record filed under this part; or

(B) obtained under this part by the Secretary of Transportation or State or the United States Postal Service.

(2) An objection must be in writing and must state the reasons for the objection. The Secretary of Transportation or State or the Postal Service shall order the information withheld from public disclosure when the appropriate Secretary or the Postal Service decides that disclosure of the information would—

(A) prejudice the United States Government in preparing and presenting its position in international negotiations; or

(B) have an adverse effect on the competitive position of an air carrier in foreign air transportation.

(b) Withholding Information From Congress.— This section does not authorize information to be withheld from a committee of Congress authorized to have the information.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1111](/us/stat/108/1111).)*

In subsection (a)(1)(B), the words “the Secretary of Transportation or State or the United States Postal Service” are substituted for “the Board, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Transportation” because under 49 App.:1551 the duties of the Civil Aeronautics Board were transferred to the Secretary of Transportation and the Postal Service.

In subsection (a)(2), the words “shall order the information withheld from public disclosure when the appropriate Secretary or the Postal Service decides that disclosure of the information” are substituted for “shall be withheld from public disclosure by the Board, the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Transportation” for clarity and because of the restatement.

In subsection (b), the words “The Board, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Transportation, as the case may be, shall be responsible for classified information in accordance with appropriate law” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40115 | 49 App.:1504. | Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85–726, § 1104, 72 Stat. 797; restated Oct. 24, 1978, Pub. L. 95–504, § 39, 92 Stat. 1743; Feb. 15, 1980, Pub. L. 96–192, § 19, 94 Stat. 43. |
