---
title: "§ 460w–5. Administration, protection, and development of lakeshore by Secretary"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460w–5"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460w–5"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–424, § 6](/us/pl/91/424/s6), Sept. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 881](/us/stat/84/881); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3030(2)](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3030/2), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3766](/us/stat/128/3766).)"
---
# § 460w–5. Administration, protection, and development of lakeshore by Secretary

##### § 460w–5. Administration, protection, and development of lakeshore by Secretary

(a) In general The lakeshore shall be administered, protected, and developed in accordance with this section and the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535); [16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1), 2–4),11 See References in Text note below. as amended and supplemented; and [section 101511 of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s101511), except that any other statutory authority available to the Secretary for the conservation and management of natural resources may be utilized to the extent he finds such authority will further the purposes of this subchapter.

(b) Federal use Notwithstanding subsection (c) of [section 460w of this title](/us/usc/t16/s460w)—

(1) the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may operate, maintain, keep, locate, inspect, repair, and replace any Federal aid to navigation located at the Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light for as long as such aid is needed for navigational purposes; and

(2) in carrying out the activities described in paragraph (1), such Secretary may enter, at any time, the Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light or any Federal aid to navigation at the Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light, for as long as such aid is needed for navigational purposes, without notice to the extent that it is not possible to provide advance notice.

(c) Clarification of authority Pursuant to existing authorities, the Secretary may enter into agreements with the City of Ashland, County of Ashland, and County of Bayfield, Wisconsin, for the purpose of cooperative law enforcement and emergency services within the boundaries of the lakeshore.

*([Pub. L. 91–424, § 6](/us/pl/91/424/s6), Sept. 26, 1970, [84 Stat. 881](/us/stat/84/881); [Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3030(2)](/us/pl/113/291/dB/tXXX/s3030/2), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3766](/us/stat/128/3766).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act of August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535); [16 U.S.C. 1](/us/usc/t16/s1), 2–4), referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101), National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

#### Codification

In subsec. (a), “[section 101511 of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s101511)” substituted for “the Act of April 9, 1924 ([43 Stat. 90](/us/stat/43/90); [16 U.S.C. 8a](/us/usc/t16/s8a) et seq.), as amended” on authority of [Pub. L. 113–287, § 6(e)](/us/pl/113/287/s6/e), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/128/3272), which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, inserted “this section and” before “the provisions of”, and added subsecs. (b) and (c).
