---
title: "§ 8585. Computation of life annuity"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8585"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8585"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 439](/us/stat/70A/439), § 7085; renumbered § 8585 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(c)(1), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)"
---
# § 8585. Computation of life annuity

##### § 8585. Computation of life annuity

Each civilian member who retires under [section 8584 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8584) is entitled to a life annuity computed by multiplying his average annual compensation during any five consecutive years of allowable service, at his option, by his number of years of service, not exceeding 35, and dividing the product by 70. The retirement annuity payable to a retired civilian member under a policy required by [section 8582 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8582) is counted as part of the retirement annuity provided in this section. Any difference between the amount received by the retired civilian member under his annuity policy and the total annual amount to which he is entitled under this section shall be paid to him by the Secretary of the Navy from appropriations made for this purpose.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 439](/us/stat/70A/439), § 7085; renumbered § 8585 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(c)(1), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)*

The words “terminable on his death at the rate of the following total annual amount” are omitted as surplusage, since they are covered by the words “life annuity”.

The words “basic salary, pay, or” are omitted as surplusage, since they are covered by the word “compensation”. The first proviso is omitted as unnecessary, since all existing rights and benefits of persons affected by this title are protected by a general saving provision.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 7085 | 34 U.S.C. 1073c–1 (less 2d proviso). | Jan. 16, 1936, ch. 3, § 4A (less 2d proviso); added Nov. 28, 1943, ch. 331, § 1, 57 Stat. 594. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 809(a)](/us/pl/115/232/s809/a), substituted “section 8584” for “section 7084” and “section 8582” for “section 7082”.

[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(c)(1)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/c/1), renumbered [section 7085 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7085) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Increase in Annuities of Civilian Members Who Retired Before April 1, 1948

[Pub. L. 85–861, § 30](/us/pl/85/861/s30), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1563](/us/stat/72/1563), provided that: “(a) A retired civilian member of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy or the United States Naval Postgraduate School who retired before April 1, 1948, is entitled to be paid, out of applicable current appropriations, $300 a year in addition to the annuity to which he is entitled under section 7085 [now 8585] of title 10. “(b) A retired civilian member whose annuity, when increased by $300 under subsection (a), is less than $1,860 is entitled to be paid an additional $300 a year out of applicable current appropriations. “(c) Additions to the annuities of retired civilian members under subsection (b) do not increase the annuities payable to the survivors of those members.”

#### Increase of Annuities—1957

[Pub. L. 85–40](/us/pl/85/40), May 31, 1957, [71 Stat. 42](/us/stat/71/42), provided: “That the annuities, payable under chapter 607 [now 857] of title 10, United States Code, to civilian members of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy or the United States Naval Postgraduate School are increased as follows: That portion of an annuity which is not in excess of $1,500 is increased by 12 per centum, and that portion of an annuity which is in excess of $1,500 is increased by 8 per centum. These increases shall not exceed the sum necessary to increase the annuity to $4,104, and are in addition to the increases authorized by Public Law 371, Eighty-fourth Congress. The monthly installments of each annuity shall be fixed at the nearest dollar. “Sec. 2. The increases provided by section 1, when added to the annuities of retired civilian members of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy or the United States Naval Postgraduate School, do not increase the annuities of their survivors. The annuity of any such survivor, however, who is entitled to or becomes entitled to an annuity under chapter 607 [now 857] of title 10, United States Code, shall be increased in accordance with the following schedule: *“If annuity commences between—**Portion of annuity not in excess of $1,500 shall be increased by—**Portion of annuity in excess of $1,500 shall be increased by—* *per centum**per centum* Jan. 16, 1936, and June 30, 1955128 July 1, 1955, and Dec. 31, 1955107 Jan. 1, 1956, and June 30, 195686 July 1, 1956, and Dec. 31, 195664 Jan. 1, 1957, and June 30, 195742 July 1, 1957, and Dec. 31, 195721 “Sec. 3. Any provision of law, enacted after the effective date of this Act [May 31, 1957], which increases the annuities of retired employees and their survivors who are entitled to annuities under the Civil Service Retirement Act of May 29, 1930, as amended ([5 U.S.C. 691](/us/usc/t5/s691) et seq.) [now covered by section 8331 et seq. 30 of Title 5], shall be applicable in like manner and to the same extent to civilian members of the teaching staff of the United States Naval Academy and of the United States Naval Postgraduate School and their survivors who are entitled to annuities under chapter 607 [now 857] of title 10, United States Code.”

| *“If annuity commences between—* | *Portion of annuity not in excess of $1,500 shall be increased by—* | *Portion of annuity in excess of $1,500 shall be increased by—* |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | *per centum* | *per centum* |
| Jan. 16, 1936, and June 30, 1955 | 12 | 8 |
| July 1, 1955, and Dec. 31, 1955 | 10 | 7 |
| Jan. 1, 1956, and June 30, 1956 | 8 | 6 |
| July 1, 1956, and Dec. 31, 1956 | 6 | 4 |
| Jan. 1, 1957, and June 30, 1957 | 4 | 2 |
| July 1, 1957, and Dec. 31, 1957 | 2 | 1 |
