---
title: "§ 10303. Applications; approval"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1213](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1213), as added [Pub. L. 104–238, § 2(2)](/us/pl/104/238/s2/2), Oct. 3, 1996, [110 Stat. 3115](/us/stat/110/3115); amended [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1086(b)(1)(G)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1086/b/1/G), (I), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/126/1968).)"
---
# § 10303. Applications; approval

##### § 10303. Applications; approval

(a) Application A person seeking assistance under this part shall submit an application to the Attorney General in such form and containing such information as the Attorney General reasonably may require.

(b) Approval The Attorney General shall approve an application for assistance under this part unless the Attorney General finds that—

(1) the person is not eligible for, is no longer eligible for, or is not entitled to the assistance for which application is made;

(2) the person’s selected educational institution fails to meet a requirement under this part for eligibility;

(3) the person’s enrollment in or pursuit of the educational program selected would fail to meet the criteria established in this part for programs; or

(4) the person already is qualified by previous education or training for the educational, professional, or vocational objective for which the educational program is offered.

(c) Notification The Attorney General shall notify a person applying for assistance under this part of approval or disapproval of the application in writing.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1213](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1213), as added [Pub. L. 104–238, § 2(2)](/us/pl/104/238/s2/2), Oct. 3, 1996, [110 Stat. 3115](/us/stat/110/3115); amended [Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, § 1086(b)(1)(G)](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tX/s1086/b/1/G), (I), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 1968](/us/stat/126/1968).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796d–2 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796d–2), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) substituted “person” for “dependent” in pars. (1) and (4) and “person’s” for “dependent’s” in pars. (2) and (3).

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 112–239, § 1086(b)(1)(G)](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/b/1/G), substituted “person” for “dependent”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2013 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) effective Jan. 2, 2013, and applicable to matters pending on Jan. 2, 2013, or filed or accruing after that date, with certain exceptions, see [section 1086(d) of Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239/s1086/d), set out as a note under [section 10251 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10251).
