---
title: "§ 5204. Cooperative associations; charter; purposes; voting rights"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5204"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5204"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 4](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s4), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967).)"
---
# § 5204. Cooperative associations; charter; purposes; voting rights

##### § 5204. Cooperative associations; charter; purposes; voting rights

Any ten or more Indians, as determined by the official tribal rolls, or Indian descendants of such enrolled members, or Indians as defined in the Act of June 18, 1934 ([48 Stat. 984](/us/stat/48/984)) [[25 U.S.C. 5101](/us/usc/t25/s5101) et seq.], who reside within the State of Oklahoma in convenient proximity to each other may receive from the Secretary of the Interior a charter as a local cooperative association for any one or more of the following purposes: Credit administration, production, marketing, consumers’ protection, or land management. The provisions of this chapter, the regulations of the Secretary of the Interior, and the charters of the cooperative associations issued pursuant thereto shall govern such cooperative associations: *Provided*, That in those matters not covered by this chapter, regulations, or charters, the laws of the State of Oklahoma, if applicable, shall govern. In any stock or nonstock cooperative association no one member shall have more than one vote, and membership therein shall be open to all Indians residing within the prescribed district.

*([June 26, 1936, ch. 831, § 4](/us/act/1936-06-26/ch831/s4), [49 Stat. 1967](/us/stat/49/1967).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, is classified generally to chapter 45 (§ 5101 et seq.) of this title. Provisions of the Act defining “Indian” appear in [section 5129 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5129). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5101 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 504 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s504) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
