---
title: "§ 220527. Complaints against national governing bodies"
identifier: "USC-T36-S220527"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section220527"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/112/1476); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 960](/us/stat/134/960).)"
---
# § 220527. Complaints against national governing bodies

##### § 220527. Complaints against national governing bodies

(a) General.—

(1) An amateur sports organization or person that belongs to or is eligible to belong to a national governing body may seek to compel the national governing body to comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title by filing a written complaint with the corporation. A copy of the complaint shall be served on the national governing body.

(2) The corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and disposition of complaints under this section.

(b) Hearings.— The corporation shall hold a hearing, within 90 days after the complaint is filed, to receive testimony to decide whether the national governing body is complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title.

(c) Disposition of Complaint.—

(1) If the corporation decides, as a result of the hearing, that the national governing body is complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title, it shall so notify the complainant and the national governing body.

(2) If the corporation decides, as a result of the hearing, that the national governing body is not complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title, it shall—

(A) place the national governing body on probation for a specified period of time, not to exceed 180 days, which the corporation considers necessary to enable the national governing body to comply with those sections; or

(B) revoke the recognition of the national governing body.

(3) If the corporation places a national governing body on probation under paragraph (2) of this subsection, it may extend the probationary period if the national governing body has proven by clear and convincing evidence that, through no fault of its own, it needs additional time to comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title. If, at the end of the period allowed by the corporation, the national governing body has not complied with those sections, the corporation shall revoke the recognition of the national governing body.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1476](/us/stat/112/1476); [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d), Oct. 30, 2020, [134 Stat. 960](/us/stat/134/960).)*

In subsection (b)(2), the words “or person” are added for clarity and consistency in the section. The words “all available remedies” are substituted for “its remedies” for consistency with subsection (b)(1) of this section. The words “within the applicable national governing body” are omitted as unnecessary.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 220527(a)(1) | 36:395(a)(1) (1st, last sentences). | Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, § 205(a), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3055. |
| 220527(a)(2) | 36:395(a)(1) (3d sentence). |  |
| 220527(b)(1) | 36:395(a)(1) (2d sentence). |  |
| 220527(b)(2) | 36:395(a)(2). |  |
| 220527(c) | 36:395(a)(3)(A). |  |
| 220527(d) | 36:395(a)(3)(B)–(D). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)(1)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d/1), (3), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which related to exhaustion of remedies before filing a complaint.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)(3)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d/3), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (b).

[Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)(2)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d/2), substituted “The corporation” for “If the corporation decides that all available remedies have been exhausted as required by subsection (b)(1) of this section, it”.

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–189, § 7(d)(3)](/us/pl/116/189/s7/d/3), redesignated subsec. (d) as (c).
