---
title: "§ 4103. Regular assessment of unmanned maritime systems to support National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration missions"
identifier: "USC-T33-S4103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section4103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–394, § 4](/us/pl/115/394/s4), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5284](/us/stat/132/5284); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIV, § 8401(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIV/s8401/a/2), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/139/1908).)"
---
# § 4103. Regular assessment of unmanned maritime systems to support National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration missions

##### § 4103. Regular assessment of unmanned maritime systems to support National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration missions

(a) In general The Administrator, acting through the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the Assistant Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for Marine and Aviation Operations and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps, shall regularly assess publicly and commercially available unmanned maritime systems for potential use to support missions of the Administration.

(b) Science-based assessments The Administrator shall carry out subsection (a) through the Assistant Administrator for all matters relating to assessment of the suitability, feasibility, and cost-effectiveness of unmanned maritime systems to meet data specifications required by programs of the Administration.

(c) Assessment of operational utility The Administrator shall carry out subsection (a) through the Director for all matters relating to assessment of whether unmanned maritime systems are operationally reliable, feasible, and cost effective enough to make observations required by programs of the Administration.

(d) Engagement The Assistant Administrator and the Director shall jointly—

(1) convene and consult the Unmanned Maritime Systems Ocean Technology Coordinating Committee established under [section 4102(b) of this title](/us/usc/t33/s4102/b); and

(2) consult with the heads of other offices of the Administration, the academic sector, and developers and manufacturers of unmanned maritime systems to conduct the assessments under subsection (a).

*([Pub. L. 115–394, § 4](/us/pl/115/394/s4), Dec. 21, 2018, [132 Stat. 5284](/us/stat/132/5284); [Pub. L. 119–60, div. H, title LXXXIV, § 8401(a)(2)](/us/pl/119/60/dH/tLXXXIV/s8401/a/2), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1908](/us/stat/139/1908).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 119–60](/us/pl/119/60) substituted “Assistant Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for” for “Director of the Office of”.
