---
title: "§ 1608. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1608"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1608"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–124, § 9](/us/pl/116/124/s9), Mar. 12, 2020, [134 Stat. 169](/us/stat/134/169); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title IX, § 901(2)](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIX/s901/2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2121](/us/stat/134/2121).)"
---
# § 1608. Definitions

##### § 1608. Definitions

(1) Advanced communications service The term “advanced communications service” has the meaning given the term “advanced telecommunications capability” in [section 1302 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1302).

(2) Appropriate national security agency The term “appropriate national security agency” means—

(A) the Department of Homeland Security;

(B) the Department of Defense;

(C) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;

(D) the National Security Agency; and

(E) the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(3) Commission The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.

(4) Communications equipment or service The term “communications equipment or service” means any equipment or service that is essential to the provision of advanced communications service.

(5) Covered communications equipment or service The term “covered communications equipment or service” means any communications equipment or service that is on the list published by the Commission under [section 1601(a) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1601/a).

(6) Customers The term “customers” means, with respect to a provider of advanced communications service—

(A) the customers of such provider; and

(B) the customers of any affiliate (as defined in [section 153 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s153)) of such provider.

(7) Executive branch interagency body The term “executive branch interagency body” means an interagency body established in the executive branch.

(8) Person The term “person” means an individual or entity.

(9) Program The term “Program” means the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Reimbursement Program established under [section 1603(a) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s1603/a).

(10) Provider of advanced communications service The term “provider of advanced communications service”—

(A) means a person who provides advanced communications service to United States customers; and

(B) includes—

(i) accredited public or private noncommercial educational institutions, providing their own facilities-based educational broadband service, as defined in section 27.4 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation; and

(ii) health care providers and libraries providing advanced communications service.

(11) Recipient The term “recipient” means any provider of advanced communications service the application of which for a reimbursement under the Program has been approved by the Commission, regardless of whether the provider has received reimbursement funds.

(12) Reimbursement funds The term “reimbursement funds” means any reimbursement received under the Program.

*([Pub. L. 116–124, § 9](/us/pl/116/124/s9), Mar. 12, 2020, [134 Stat. 169](/us/stat/134/169); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. N, title IX, § 901(2)](/us/pl/116/260/dN/tIX/s901/2), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2121](/us/stat/134/2121).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2020—Par. (10). [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) amended par. (10) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The term ‘provider of advanced communications service’ means a person who provides advanced communications service to United States customers.”
