---
title: "§ 20981. Pilot program for monitoring sexual offenders"
identifier: "USC-T34-S20981"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section20981"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 621](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s621), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 633](/us/stat/120/633); [Pub. L. 110–400, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/400/s4/a), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4227](/us/stat/122/4227).)"
---
# § 20981. Pilot program for monitoring sexual offenders

##### § 20981. Pilot program for monitoring sexual offenders

(a) Sex offender monitoring program

(1) Grants authorized

(A) In general The Attorney General is authorized to award grants (referred to as “Jessica Lunsford and Sarah Lunde Grants”) to States, local governments, and Indian tribal governments to assist in—

(i) carrying out programs to outfit sex offenders with electronic monitoring units; and

(ii) the employment of law enforcement officials necessary to carry out such programs.

(B) Duration The Attorney General shall award grants under this section for a period not to exceed 3 years.

(C) Minimum standards The electronic monitoring units used in the pilot program shall at a minimum—

(i) provide a tracking device for each offender that contains a central processing unit with global positioning system; and

(ii) permit continuous monitoring of offenders 24 hours a day.

(2) Application

(A) In general Each State, local government, or Indian tribal government desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.

(B) Contents Each application submitted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall—

(i) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

(ii) provide such additional assurances as the Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.

(b) Innovation In making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall ensure that different approaches to monitoring are funded to allow an assessment of effectiveness.

(c) Authorization of appropriations

(1) In general There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2007 through 2009 to carry out this section.

(2) Report Not later than September 1, 2010, the Attorney General shall report to Congress—

(A) assessing the effectiveness and value of this section;

(B) comparing the cost effectiveness of the electronic monitoring to reduce sex offenses compared to other alternatives; and

(C) making recommendations for continuing funding and the appropriate levels for such funding.

*([Pub. L. 109–248, title VI, § 621](/us/pl/109/248/tVI/s621), July 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 633](/us/stat/120/633); [Pub. L. 110–400, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/400/s4/a), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4227](/us/stat/122/4227).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 16981 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s16981), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2008—Subsec. (a)(1)(C). [Pub. L. 110–400, § 4(a)](/us/pl/110/400/s4/a), amended subpar. (C) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (C) set minimum standards for electronic monitoring units used in the pilot program.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

[Pub. L. 110–400, § 4(b)](/us/pl/110/400/s4/b), Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4228](/us/stat/122/4228), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to grants provided on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 13, 2008].”
