---
title: "§ 1748d. Report on wildfire, insect infestation, and disease prevention on Federal land"
identifier: "USC-T43-S1748d"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section1748d"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, § 8706](/us/pl/115/334/tVIII/s8706), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4880](/us/stat/132/4880).)"
---
# § 1748d. Report on wildfire, insect infestation, and disease prevention on Federal land

##### § 1748d. Report on wildfire, insect infestation, and disease prevention on Federal land

(1) the number of acres of Federal land treated by the Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior for wildfire, insect infestation, or disease prevention;

(2) the number of acres of Federal land categorized as a high or extreme fire risk;

(3) the total timber production from Federal land;

(4) the number of acres and average fire intensity of wildfires affecting Federal land treated for wildfire, insect infestation, or disease prevention;

(5) the number of acres and average fire intensity of wildfires affecting Federal land not treated for wildfire, insect infestation, or disease prevention;

(6) the Federal response time for each fire on greater than 25,000 acres;

(7) the number of miles of roads and trails on Federal land in need of maintenance;

(8) the number of miles of roads on Federal land in need of decommissioning;

(9) the maintenance backlog, as of the date of the report, for roads, trails, and recreational facilities on Federal land;

(10) other measures needed to maintain, improve, or restore water quality on Federal land; and

(11) other measures needed to improve ecosystem function or resiliency on Federal land.

*([Pub. L. 115–334, title VIII, § 8706](/us/pl/115/334/tVIII/s8706), Dec. 20, 2018, [132 Stat. 4880](/us/stat/132/4880).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 115–334](/us/pl/115/334/s2), set out as a note under [section 9001 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s9001), Agriculture.
