---
title: "§ 2213a. Treatment of certain benefits and costs"
identifier: "USC-T33-S2213a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section2213a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, § 152](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tI/s152), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2658](/us/stat/134/2658); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8380](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8380), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3828](/us/stat/136/3828).)"
---
# § 2213a. Treatment of certain benefits and costs

##### § 2213a. Treatment of certain benefits and costs

(a) In general In the case of a flood risk management or coastal storm risk management project in a region of moderate or high seismic hazard, for the purpose of a benefit-cost analysis for the project, the Secretary shall not include in that analysis any additional design and construction costs resulting from addressing seismic concerns.

(b) Savings provision Except with respect to the benefit-cost analysis, the additional costs referred to in subsection (a) shall be—

(1) included in the total project cost; and

(2) subject to cost-share requirements otherwise applicable to the project.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. AA, title I, § 152](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/tI/s152), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2658](/us/stat/134/2658); [Pub. L. 117–263, div. H, title LXXXI, § 8380](/us/pl/117/263/dH/tLXXXI/s8380), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3828](/us/stat/136/3828).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2020, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263) substituted “a flood risk management or coastal storm risk management project in a region” for “flood risk management project that incidentally generates seismic safety benefits in regions”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### “Secretary” Defined

Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see [section 2 of div. AA of Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260/dAA/s2), set out as a note under [section 2201 of this title](/us/usc/t33/s2201).
