---
title: "§ 3154e. Workforce training grants"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3154e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3154e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 219](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s219), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2221](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2221), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3186](/us/stat/138/3186).)"
---
# § 3154e. Workforce training grants

##### § 3154e. Workforce training grants

(a) In general On the application of an eligible recipient, the Secretary may make grants to support the development and expansion of innovative workforce training programs through sectoral partnerships leading to quality jobs and the acquisition of equipment or construction of facilities to support workforce development activities.

(b) Eligible uses Funds from a grant under this section may be used for—

(1) acquisition or development of land and improvements to house workforce training activities;

(2) acquisition, design and engineering, construction, rehabilitation, alteration, expansion, or improvement of such a facility, including related equipment and machinery;

(3) acquisition of machinery or equipment to support workforce training activities;

(4) planning, technical assistance, and training;

(5) sector partnerships development, program design, and program implementation; and

(6) in the case of an eligible recipient that is a State, subject to subsection (c), a State program to support individual trainees for employment in critical industries with high demand and vacancies necessary for further economic development of the applicable State that—

(A) requires significant post-secondary training; but

(B) does not require a post-secondary degree.

(c) State grant pilot program

(1) In general The Secretary may award grants to States for the purpose described in subsection (b)(6).

(2) Application To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, the Chief Executive of a State shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:

(A) A method for identifying critical industry sectors driving in-State economic growth that face staffing challenges for in-demand jobs and careers.

(B) A governance structure for the implementation of the program established by the State, including defined roles for the consortia of agencies of such State, at a minimum, to include the State departments of economic development, labor, and education, or the State departments or agencies with jurisdiction over those matters.

(C) A strategy for recruiting participants from at least 1 community that meets 1 or more of the criteria described in [section 3161(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3161/a).

(D) A plan for how the State will develop a tracking system for eligible programs, participant enrollment, participant outcomes, and an application portal for individual participants.

(3) Selection The Secretary shall award not more than 1 grant under this subsection to any State.

(4) Eligible uses A grant under this subsection may be used for—

(A) necessary costs to carry out the matters described in this subsection, including tuition and stipends for individuals that receive funds under the program established by the applicable State, subject to the requirements described in paragraph (6); and

(B) program implementation, planning, technical assistance, or training.

(5) Federal share Notwithstanding [section 3144 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3144), the Federal share of the cost of any award carried out with a grant made under this subsection shall not exceed 70 percent.

(6) Participant amounts A State shall ensure that grant funds provided under this subsection to each individual that receives funds under the program established by the applicable State is the lesser of the following amounts:

(A) In a case in which the individual is also eligible for a Federal Pell Grant under [section 1070a of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1070a) for enrollment at the applicable training program for any award year of the training program, $11,000 minus the amount of the awarded Federal Pell Grant.

(B) For an individual not described in paragraph (1), the lesser of—

(i) $11,000; and

(ii) the total cost of the training program in which the individual is enrolled, including tuition, fees, career navigation services, textbook costs, expenses related to assessments and exams for certification or licensure, equipment costs, and wage stipends (in the case of a training program that is an earn-and-learn program).

(7) Termination The authority provided under this subsection shall expire on September 30, 2029.

(d) Coordination The Secretary shall coordinate the development of new workforce development models with the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education.

*([Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 219](/us/pl/89/136/tII/s219), as added [Pub. L. 118–272, div. B, title II, § 2221](/us/pl/118/272/dB/tII/s2221), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 3186](/us/stat/138/3186).)*
