---
title: "§ 6213. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6213"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6213"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–236, title III, § 314](/us/pl/103/236/tIII/s314), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 445](/us/stat/108/445); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1288(8)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1288/8), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/130/2554); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, § 1299Q(e)(10)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXII/s1299Q/e/10), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4025](/us/stat/134/4025).)"
---
# § 6213. Definitions

##### § 6213. Definitions

(1) the term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;

(2) the terms “Agency” and “Chief Executive Officer of the Agency” mean the United States Agency for Global Media and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States Agency for Global Media, respectively, and the position, respectively, authorized in accordance with this chapter;

(3) the term “RFE/RL, Incorporated” means the corporation having the corporate title described in [section 6207 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6207) 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “; and”.

(4) the term “salary or other compensation” includes any deferred compensation or pension payments, any payments for expenses for which the recipient is not obligated to itemize, and any payments for personnel services provided to an employee of RFE/RL, Incorporated.

*([Pub. L. 103–236, title III, § 314](/us/pl/103/236/tIII/s314), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 445](/us/stat/108/445); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1288(8)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1288/8), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2554](/us/stat/130/2554); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, § 1299Q(e)(10)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXII/s1299Q/e/10), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4025](/us/stat/134/4025).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236), Apr. 30, 1994, [108 Stat. 432](/us/stat/108/432), known as the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6201 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6201) and Tables.

This chapter, referred to in par. (2), was in the original “this Act”, and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 103–236](/us/pl/103/236), to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See above.

#### Codification

[Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, § 1299Q(e)(10)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXII/s1299Q/e/10), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4025](/us/stat/134/4025), which amended this section, was itself amended by [Pub. L. 116–260, div. O, title XIII, § 1301](/us/pl/116/260/dO/tXIII/s1301), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2158](/us/stat/134/2158), to make it effective 90 days after Jan. 1, 2021. However, the amendment by [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260) could not be executed because it was enacted before the provision from [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) that it amended.

#### Amendments

2021—Par. (2). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1299Q(e)(10)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s1299Q/e/10/A), which directed redesignation of first par. (4), relating to the terms “Board” and “Chief Executive Officer of the Board”, as (2) and substitutition of “the terms ‘Agency’ and ‘Chief Executive Officer of the Agency’ mean the United States Agency for Global Media and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States Agency for Global Media, respectively,” for “the terms ‘Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Board’ means the Broadcasting Board of Governors”, was executed by making the redesignation and by making the substitution for “the terms ‘Board’ and ‘Chief Executive Officer of the Board’ mean the Broadcasting Board of Governors”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1299Q(e)(10)(B)](/us/pl/116/283/s1299Q/e/10/B), substituted “means the corporation having the corporate title described in [section 6207 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6207)” for “includes—” and struck out subpars. (A) and (B) which read as follows:

“(A) the corporation having the corporate title described in [section 6206(b)(3) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6206/b/3); and

“(B) any alternative grantee described in [section 6206(e) of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6206/e); and”.

Par. (4). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1299Q(e)(10)(A)](/us/pl/116/283/s1299Q/e/10/A), redesignated first par. (4), relating to the terms “Board” and “Chief Executive Officer of the Board”, as (2).

2016—Pars. (2) to (4). [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328) redesignated par. (2) as (3) and par. (3) as (4) defining “salary or other compensation” and added par. (4) defining “Board” and “Chief Executive Officer of the Board” after par. (1).
