---
title: "§ 2005b. Conditions of assistance"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2005b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2005b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 85–151, § 3](/us/pl/85/151/s3), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 371](/us/stat/71/371).)"
---
# § 2005b. Conditions of assistance

##### § 2005b. Conditions of assistance

(a) require plans and specifications meeting such standards of construction and equipment as he may prescribe, and

(b) obtain such assurances and agreements as in his judgment are equitable in the light of the financial assistance provided under this subchapter and are necessary to assure the availability of the facility for the provision of hospital and medical care to Indians and to assure that the hospital is operated in compliance with State standards for operation and maintenance of hospitals which receive Federal aid under title VI of the Public Health Service Act [[42 U.S.C. 291](/us/usc/t42/s291) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 85–151, § 3](/us/pl/85/151/s3), Aug. 16, 1957, [71 Stat. 371](/us/stat/71/371).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Public Health Service Act, referred to in par. (b), is [act July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), [58 Stat. 682](/us/stat/58/682). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 291 et seq.) of chapter 6A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 201 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s201) and Tables.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, [80 Stat. 1610](/us/stat/80/1610), and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, set out as a note under [section 202 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s202). Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare redesignated Secretary of Health and Human Services by [section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88](/us/pl/96/88/s509/b), which is classified to [section 3508(b) of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s3508/b), Education. Office of Surgeon General reestablished within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, see Notice of Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Mar. 30, 1987, 52 F.R. 11754.
