---
title: "§ 9656. Transportation of hazardous substances; listing as hazardous material; liability for release"
identifier: "USC-T42-S9656"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section9656"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 306(a)](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s306/a), (b), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/94/2810); [Pub. L. 99–499, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/499/tII/s202), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/100/1695).)"
---
# § 9656. Transportation of hazardous substances; listing as hazardous material; liability for release

##### § 9656. Transportation of hazardous substances; listing as hazardous material; liability for release

(a) Each hazardous substance which is listed or designated as provided in [section 9601(14) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9601/14) shall, within 30 days after October 17, 1986, or at the time of such listing or designation, whichever is later, be listed and regulated as a hazardous material under chapter 51 of title 49.

(b) A common or contract carrier shall be liable under other law in lieu of [section 9607 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s9607) for damages or remedial action resulting from the release of a hazardous substance during the course of transportation which commenced prior to the effective date of the listing and regulation of such substance as a hazardous material under chapter 51 of title 49, or for substances listed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, prior to the effective date of such listing: *Provided, however*, That this subsection shall not apply where such a carrier can demonstrate that he did not have actual knowledge of the identity or nature of the substance released.

*([Pub. L. 96–510, title III, § 306(a)](/us/pl/96/510/tIII/s306/a), (b), Dec. 11, 1980, [94 Stat. 2810](/us/stat/94/2810); [Pub. L. 99–499, title II, § 202](/us/pl/99/499/tII/s202), Oct. 17, 1986, [100 Stat. 1695](/us/stat/100/1695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

In subsecs. (a) and (b), “chapter 51 of title 49” substituted for “the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act [49 App. U.S.C. 1801 et seq.]” on authority of [Pub. L. 103–272, § 6(b)](/us/pl/103/272/s6/b), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1378](/us/stat/108/1378), the first section of which enacted subtitles II, III, and V to X of Title 49, Transportation.

#### Amendments

1986—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 99–499, § 202(a)](/us/pl/99/499/s202/a), substituted “within 30 days after October 17, 1986” for “within ninety days after December 11, 1980” and inserted “and regulated” before “as a hazardous material”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 99–499, § 202(b)](/us/pl/99/499/s202/b), inserted “and regulation” after “prior to the effective date of the listing”.
