---
title: "§ 1909. Policy on hazing"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1909"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1909"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7245(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7245/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1730](/us/stat/139/1730).)"
---
# § 1909. Policy on hazing

##### § 1909. Policy on hazing

(a) In General.— Subject to the approval of the Commandant, the Superintendent of the Academy shall issue and make available to the public written policies—

(1) subject to subsection (d), defining hazing;

(2) designed to prevent hazing; and

(3) prescribing dismissal, suspension, or other adequate punishment for violations.

(b) Effect of Request for Court-martial.— If a cadet who is charged with violating a policy issued under subsection (a), the penalty for which is or may be dismissal from the Academy, requests in writing a trial by a general court-martial, the cadet may not be dismissed for that offense except under sentence of such a court.

(c) Limitation.— A cadet dismissed from the Academy for hazing or bullying may not be reappointed to the Corps of Cadets, and is ineligible for appointment as commissioned 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “a”. officer in a regular component of the Coast Guard, until the date that is 2 years after the date of the graduation of the class of the cadet.

(d) Definition of Hazing.— In developing the policies under subsection (a)(1), the Superintendent shall, to the maximum extent practicable, define the term “hazing” as the unauthorized assumption of authority by a cadet whereby another cadet suffers or is exposed to any cruelty, indignity, humiliation, hardship, or oppression, or the deprivation or abridgement of any right.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. G, title LXXII, § 7245(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dG/tLXXII/s7245/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1730](/us/stat/139/1730).)*
