---
title: "§ 6311. Research and development grants"
identifier: "USC-T49-S6311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section6311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 894](/us/stat/126/894).)"
---
# § 6311. Research and development grants

##### § 6311. Research and development grants

(1) investigation of the subjects described in section 6302(b)(3)(B)(vi);

(2) research and development of new methods of data collection, standardization, management, integration, dissemination, interpretation, and analysis;

(3) demonstration programs by States, local governments, and metropolitan planning organizations to coordinate data collection, reporting, management, storage, and archiving to simplify data comparisons across jurisdictions;

(4) development of electronic clearinghouses of transportation data and related information, as part of the Library; and

(5) development and improvement of methods for sharing geographic data, in support of the database under section 6310 11 So in original. Probably should be “section 6309”. and the National Spatial Data Infrastructure developed under Executive Order 12906 (59 Fed. Reg. 17671) (or a successor Executive Order).

*(Added [Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a)](/us/pl/112/141/dE/tII/s52011/a), July 6, 2012, [126 Stat. 894](/us/stat/126/894).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Executive Order 12906, referred to in par. (5), is Ex. Ord. No. 12906, Apr. 11, 1994, 59 F.R. 17671, which is set out as a note under [section 1457 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1457), Public Lands.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 2012, see [section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141](/us/pl/112/141/s3/a), set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under [section 101 of Title 23](/us/usc/t23/s101), Highways.
