---
title: "§ 498. Transfer of management and operation of works to water users generally"
identifier: "USC-T43-S498"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section498"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "([June 17, 1902, ch. 1093, § 6](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093/s6), [32 Stat. 389](/us/stat/32/389).)"
---
# § 498. Transfer of management and operation of works to water users generally

##### § 498. Transfer of management and operation of works to water users generally

When the payments required by this Act are made for the major portion of the lands irrigated from the waters of any of the works herein provided for, then the management and operation of such irrigation works shall pass to the owners of the lands irrigated thereby, to be maintained at their expense under such form of organization and under such rules and regulations as may be acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior; *Provided*, That the title to and the management and operation of the reservoirs and the works necessary for their protection and operation shall remain in the Government until otherwise provided by Congress.

*([June 17, 1902, ch. 1093, § 6](/us/act/1902-06-17/ch1093/s6), [32 Stat. 389](/us/stat/32/389).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in text, is act June 17, 1902, popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 371 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s371) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of part of section 6 of act June 17, 1902. Remainder of such section 6 is classified to [section 491 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s491).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Section as Unaffected by Submerged Lands Act

Provisions of this section as not amended, modified or repealed by the Submerged Lands Act, see [section 1303 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1303).
