---
title: "§ 10102. Duties and functions of Assistant Attorney General"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 102](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s102), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 603(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s603/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2078](/us/stat/98/2078); amended [Pub. L. 107–296, title II, § 236](/us/pl/107/296/tII/s236), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2162](/us/stat/116/2162); [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1152](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1152), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3113](/us/stat/119/3113).)"
---
# § 10102. Duties and functions of Assistant Attorney General

##### § 10102. Duties and functions of Assistant Attorney General

(a) Specific, general and delegated powers The Assistant Attorney General shall—

(1) publish and disseminate information on the conditions and progress of the criminal justice systems;

(2) maintain liaison with the executive and judicial branches of the Federal and State governments in matters relating to criminal justice;

(3) provide information to the President, the Congress, the judiciary, State and local governments, and the general public relating to criminal justice;

(4) maintain liaison with public and private educational and research institutions, State and local governments, and governments of other nations relating to criminal justice;

(5) coordinate and provide staff support to coordinate the activities of the Office and the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the Office for Victims of Crime, and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention; and

(6) exercise such other powers and functions as may be vested in the Assistant Attorney General pursuant to this chapter or by delegation of the Attorney General, including placing special conditions on all grants, and determining priority purposes for formula grants.

(b) Annual report to President and Congress The Assistant Attorney General shall submit an annual report to the President and to the Congress not later than March 31 of each year.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 102](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s102), as added [Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 603(a)](/us/pl/98/473/tII/s603/a), Oct. 12, 1984, [98 Stat. 2078](/us/stat/98/2078); amended [Pub. L. 107–296, title II, § 236](/us/pl/107/296/tII/s236), Nov. 25, 2002, [116 Stat. 2162](/us/stat/116/2162); [Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1152](/us/pl/109/162/tXI/s1152), Jan. 5, 2006, [119 Stat. 3113](/us/stat/119/3113).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(6), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351), as added by [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1167](/us/stat/93/1167), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3712 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3712), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 102 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s102), title I, as added [Pub. L. 96–157, § 2](/us/pl/96/157/s2), Dec. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 1170](/us/stat/93/1170), described duties and functions of Administrator of Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, prior to the general amendment of part A of title I of [Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351) by [Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473).

#### Amendments

2006—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1152(a)](/us/pl/109/162/s1152/a), inserted “the Office for Victims of Crime,” after “the Bureau of Justice Statistics,”.

Subsec. (a)(6). [Pub. L. 109–162, § 1152(b)](/us/pl/109/162/s1152/b), inserted “, including placing special conditions on all grants, and determining priority purposes for formula grants” before period at end.

2002—Subsec. (a)(5). [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) inserted “coordinate and” before “provide”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2002 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296) effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296](/us/pl/107/296/s4), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 101 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s101), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 12, 1984, see [section 609AA(a) of Pub. L. 98–473](/us/pl/98/473/s609AA/a), set out as a note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).
