---
title: "§ 713. Personal responsibility education"
identifier: "USC-T42-S713"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section713"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title V, § 513, as added and amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title II, § 2953](/us/pl/111/148/tII/s2953), title X, § 10201(h), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 347](/us/stat/124/347), 922; [Pub. L. 113–93, title II, § 206](/us/pl/113/93/tII/s206), Apr. 1, 2014, [128 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/128/1046); [Pub. L. 114–10, title II, § 215](/us/pl/114/10/tII/s215), Apr. 16, 2015, [129 Stat. 153](/us/stat/129/153); [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title V, § 50503(a)](/us/p"
---
# § 713. Personal responsibility education

##### § 713. Personal responsibility education

(a) Allotments to States

(1) Amount

(A) In general For the purpose described in subsection (b), subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026, the Secretary shall allot to each State an amount equal to the product of—

(i) the amount appropriated under subsection (f) for the fiscal year or period and available for allotments to States after the application of subsection (c); and

(ii) the State youth population percentage determined under paragraph (2).

(B) Minimum allotment

(i) In general Each State allotment under this paragraph for a fiscal year shall be at least $250,000. The previous sentence shall not apply with respect to State allotments under this paragraph for fiscal years 2024 and 2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026.

(ii) Pro rata adjustments The Secretary shall adjust on a pro rata basis the amount of the State allotments determined under this paragraph for a fiscal year to the extent necessary to comply with clause (i).

(C) Application required to access allotments

(i) In general A State shall not be paid from its allotment for a fiscal year or period described in subparagraph (A) unless the State submits an application to the Secretary for the fiscal year or period and the Secretary approves the application (or requires changes to the application that the State satisfies) and meets such additional requirements as the Secretary may specify.

(ii) Requirements The State application shall contain an assurance that the State has complied with the requirements of this section in preparing and submitting the application and shall include the following as well as such additional information as the Secretary may require:

(I) Based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health Statistics, the most recent pregnancy rates for the State for youth ages 10 to 14 and youth ages 15 to 19 for which data are available, the most recent birth rates for such youth populations in the State for which data are available, and trends in those rates for the most recently preceding 5-year period for which such data are available.

(II) State-established goals for reducing the pregnancy rates and birth rates for such youth populations.

(III) A description of the State’s plan for using the State allotments provided under this section to achieve such goals, especially among youth populations that are the most high-risk or vulnerable for pregnancies or otherwise have special circumstances, including youth in foster care, homeless youth, youth with HIV/AIDS, pregnant youth who are under 21 years of age, mothers who are under 21 years of age, and youth residing in areas with high birth rates for youth.

(2) State youth population percentage

(A) In general For purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(ii), the State youth population percentage is, with respect to a State, the proportion (expressed as a percentage) of—

(i) the number of individuals who have attained age 10 but not attained age 20 in the State; to

(ii) the number of such individuals in all States.

(B) Determination of number of youth The number of individuals described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A) in a State shall be determined on the basis of the most recent Bureau of the Census data.

(3) Availability of State allotments Subject to paragraph (4)(A), amounts allotted to a State pursuant to this subsection for a fiscal year or period described in paragraph (1)(A) shall remain available for expenditure by the State through the end of the second fiscal year following such fiscal year or period.

(4) Authority to award grants from State allotments to local organizations and entities in nonparticipating States

(A) Grants from unexpended allotments If a State does not submit an application under this section for fiscal year 2010 or 2011, the State shall no longer be eligible to submit an application to receive funds from the amounts allotted for the State for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2023 and for each period described in paragraph (1)(A) and such amounts shall be used by the Secretary to award grants under this paragraph for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2023 and for each period so described. The Secretary also shall use any amounts from the allotments of States that submit applications under this section for a fiscal year or period so described that remain unexpended as of the end of the period in which the allotments are available for expenditure under paragraph (3) for awarding grants under this paragraph.

(B) Competitive prep grants

(i) In general The Secretary shall continue through each period described in paragraph (1)(A) grants awarded for any of fiscal years 2015 through 2017 to local organizations and entities to conduct, consistent with subsection (b), programs and activities in States that do not submit an application for an allotment under this section for fiscal year 2010 or 2011.

(ii) Faith-based organizations or consortia The Secretary may solicit and award grants under this paragraph to faith-based organizations or consortia.

(C) Evaluation An organization or entity awarded a grant under this paragraph shall agree to participate in a rigorous Federal evaluation.

(5) Maintenance of effort No payment shall be made to a State from the allotment determined for the State under this subsection or to a local organization or entity awarded a grant under paragraph (4), if the expenditure of non-federal funds by the State, organization, or entity for activities, programs, or initiatives for which amounts from allotments and grants under this subsection may be expended is less than the amount expended by the State, organization, or entity for such programs or initiatives for fiscal year 2009.

(6) Data collection and reporting A State or local organization or entity receiving funds under this section shall cooperate with such requirements relating to the collection of data and information and reporting on outcomes regarding the programs and activities carried out with such funds, as the Secretary shall specify.

(b) Purpose

(1) In general The purpose of an allotment under subsection (a)(1) to a State is to enable the State (or, in the case of grants made under subsection (a)(4)(B), to enable a local organization or entity) to carry out personal responsibility education programs consistent with this subsection.

(2) Personal responsibility education programs

(A) In general In this section, the term “personal responsibility education program” means a program that is designed to educate adolescents on—

(i) both abstinence and contraception for the prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections, including HIV/AIDS, consistent with the requirements of subparagraph (B); and

(ii) at least 3 of the adulthood preparation subjects described in subparagraph (C).

(B) Requirements The requirements of this subparagraph are the following:

(i) The program replicates evidence-based effective programs or substantially incorporates elements of effective programs that have been proven on the basis of rigorous scientific research to change behavior, which means delaying sexual activity, increasing condom or contraceptive use for sexually active youth, or reducing pregnancy among youth.

(ii) The program is medically-accurate and complete.

(iii) The program includes activities to educate youth who are sexually active regarding responsible sexual behavior with respect to both abstinence and the use of contraception.

(iv) The program places substantial emphasis on both abstinence and contraception for the prevention of pregnancy among youth and sexually transmitted infections.

(v) The program provides age-appropriate information and activities.

(vi) The information and activities carried out under the program are provided in the cultural context that is most appropriate for individuals in the particular population group to which they are directed.

(C) Adulthood preparation subjects The adulthood preparation subjects described in this subparagraph are the following:

(i) Healthy relationships, including marriage and family interactions.

(ii) Adolescent development, such as the development of healthy attitudes and values about adolescent growth and development, body image, racial and ethnic diversity, and other related subjects.

(iii) Financial literacy.

(iv) Parent-child communication.

(v) Educational and career success, such as developing skills for employment preparation, job seeking, independent living, financial self-sufficiency, and workplace productivity.

(vi) Healthy life skills, such as goal-setting, decision making, negotiation, communication and interpersonal skills, and stress management.

(c) Reservations of funds

(1) Grants to implement innovative strategies Subject to paragraph (3), from the amount appropriated under subsection (f) for the fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve $10,000,000 of such amount for purposes of awarding grants to entities to implement innovative youth pregnancy prevention strategies and target services to high-risk, vulnerable, and culturally under-represented youth populations, including youth in foster care, homeless youth, youth with HIV/AIDS, victims of human trafficking, pregnant women who are under 21 years of age and their partners, mothers who are under 21 years of age and their partners, and youth residing in areas with high birth rates for youth. An entity awarded a grant under this paragraph shall agree to participate in a rigorous Federal evaluation of the activities carried out with grant funds.

(2) Other reservations Subject to paragraph (3), from the amount appropriated under subsection (f) for the fiscal year that remains after the application of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall reserve the following amounts:

(A) Grants for Indian tribes or tribal organizations The Secretary shall reserve 5 percent of such remainder for purposes of awarding grants to Indian tribes and tribal organizations in such manner, and subject to such requirements, as the Secretary, in consultation with Indian tribes and tribal organizations, determines appropriate.

(B) Secretarial responsibilities

(i) Reservation of funds The Secretary shall reserve 10 percent of such remainder for expenditures by the Secretary for the activities described in clauses (ii) and (iii).

(ii) Program support The Secretary shall provide, directly or through a competitive grant process, research, training and technical assistance, including dissemination of research and information regarding effective and promising practices, providing consultation and resources on a broad array of teen pregnancy prevention strategies, including abstinence and contraception, and developing resources and materials to support the activities of recipients of grants and other State, tribal, and community organizations working to reduce teen pregnancy. In carrying out such functions, the Secretary shall collaborate with a variety of entities that have expertise in the prevention of teen pregnancy, HIV and sexually transmitted infections, healthy relationships, financial literacy, and other topics addressed through the personal responsibility education programs.

(iii) Evaluation The Secretary shall evaluate the programs and activities carried out with funds made available through allotments or grants under this section.

(3) Exception Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply with respect to any amount appropriated under subsection (f) for a period described in subsection (a)(1)(A) for fiscal year 2026.

(d) Administration

(1) In general The Secretary shall administer this section through the Assistant Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families within the Department of Health and Human Services.

(2) Application of other provisions of subchapter

(A) In general Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the other provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to allotments or grants made under this section.

(B) Exceptions The following provisions of this subchapter shall apply to allotments and grants made under this section to the same extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to allotments made under [section 702(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s702/c):

(i) [Section 704(b)(6) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s704/b/6) (relating to prohibition on payments to excluded individuals and entities).

(ii) [Section 704(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s704/c) (relating to the use of funds for the purchase of technical assistance).

(iii) [Section 704(d) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s704/d) (relating to a limitation on administrative expenditures).

(iv) [Section 706 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s706) (relating to reports and audits), but only to the extent determined by the Secretary to be appropriate for grants made under this section.

(v) [Section 707 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s707) (relating to penalties for false statements).

(vi) [Section 708 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s708) (relating to nondiscrimination).

(e) Definitions In this section:

(1) Age-appropriate The term “age-appropriate”, with respect to the information in pregnancy prevention, means topics, messages, and teaching methods suitable to particular ages or age groups of children and adolescents, based on developing cognitive, emotional, and behavioral capacity typical for the age or age group.

(2) Medically accurate and complete The term “medically accurate and complete” means verified or supported by the weight of research conducted in compliance with accepted scientific methods and—

(A) published in peer-reviewed journals, where applicable; or

(B) comprising information that leading professional organizations and agencies with relevant expertise in the field recognize as accurate, objective, and complete.

(3) Indian tribes; Tribal organizations The terms “Indian tribe” and “Tribal organization” have the meanings given such terms in [section 1603 of title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1603).

(4) Youth The term “youth” means an individual who has attained age 10 but has not attained age 20.

(f) Appropriation For the purpose of carrying out this section, there is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2025. Amounts appropriated under this subsection shall remain available until expended.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title V, § 513, as added and amended [Pub. L. 111–148, title II, § 2953](/us/pl/111/148/tII/s2953), title X, § 10201(h), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 347](/us/stat/124/347), 922; [Pub. L. 113–93, title II, § 206](/us/pl/113/93/tII/s206), Apr. 1, 2014, [128 Stat. 1046](/us/stat/128/1046); [Pub. L. 114–10, title II, § 215](/us/pl/114/10/tII/s215), Apr. 16, 2015, [129 Stat. 153](/us/stat/129/153); [Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title V, § 50503(a)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tV/s50503/a), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 227](/us/stat/132/227); [Pub. L. 116–59, div. B, title II, § 1202](/us/pl/116/59/dB/tII/s1202), Sept. 27, 2019, [133 Stat. 1104](/us/stat/133/1104); [Pub. L. 116–69, div. B, title II, § 1202](/us/pl/116/69/dB/tII/s1202), Nov. 21, 2019, [133 Stat. 1137](/us/stat/133/1137); [Pub. L. 116–94, div. N, title I, § 304](/us/pl/116/94/dN/tI/s304), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3113](/us/stat/133/3113); [Pub. L. 116–136, div. A, title III, § 3822](/us/pl/116/136/dA/tIII/s3822), Mar. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 432](/us/stat/134/432); [Pub. L. 116–159, div. C, title I, § 2103](/us/pl/116/159/dC/tI/s2103), Oct. 1, 2020, [134 Stat. 729](/us/stat/134/729); [Pub. L. 116–215, div. B, title II, § 1203(b)](/us/pl/116/215/dB/tII/s1203/b), Dec. 11, 2020, [134 Stat. 1045](/us/stat/134/1045); [Pub. L. 116–260, div. CC, title III, § 302](/us/pl/116/260/dCC/tIII/s302), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2992](/us/stat/134/2992); [Pub. L. 118–15, div. B, title III, § 2353](/us/pl/118/15/dB/tIII/s2353), Sept. 30, 2023, [137 Stat. 97](/us/stat/137/97); [Pub. L. 118–22, div. B, title II, § 403](/us/pl/118/22/dB/tII/s403), Nov. 17, 2023, [137 Stat. 122](/us/stat/137/122); [Pub. L. 118–35, div. B, title I, § 143](/us/pl/118/35/dB/tI/s143), Jan. 19, 2024, [138 Stat. 6](/us/stat/138/6); [Pub. L. 118–42, div. G, title I, § 404](/us/pl/118/42/dG/tI/s404), Mar. 9, 2024, [138 Stat. 418](/us/stat/138/418); [Pub. L. 118–158, div. C, title III, § 3302](/us/pl/118/158/dC/tIII/s3302), Dec. 21, 2024, [138 Stat. 1767](/us/stat/138/1767); [Pub. L. 119–4, div. B, title III, § 2302](/us/pl/119/4/dB/tIII/s2302), Mar. 15, 2025, [139 Stat. 45](/us/stat/139/45); [Pub. L. 119–37, div. F, title III, § 6302](/us/pl/119/37/dF/tIII/s6302), Nov. 12, 2025, [139 Stat. 635](/us/stat/139/635).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 713, [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title V, § 513](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531/tV/s513), as added Jan. 2, 1968, [Pub. L. 90–248, title III, § 301](/us/pl/90/248/tIII/s301), [81 Stat. 928](/us/stat/81/928), which related to administration, was omitted in the general revision of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 97–35, title XXI, § 2192(a)](/us/pl/97/35/tXXI/s2192/a), Aug. 13, 1981, [95 Stat. 818](/us/stat/95/818).

Another prior section 713, acts [Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title V, § 513, [49 Stat. 632](/us/stat/49/632); [Aug. 10, 1939, ch. 666](/us/act/1939-08-10/ch666), title V, § 506, [53 Stat. 1381](/us/stat/53/1381); 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 2, §§ 1, 4, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7873, [60 Stat. 1095](/us/stat/60/1095); [Aug. 28, 1950, ch. 809](/us/act/1950-08-28/ch809), title III, pt. 6, § 361(e), [64 Stat. 558](/us/stat/64/558); July 30, 1965, [Pub. L. 89–97, title II, § 204(b)](/us/pl/89/97/tII/s204/b), [79 Stat. 354](/us/stat/79/354), related to contents of State plans for services for crippled children and their approval by the Administrator prior to the general amendment of title V of the Social Security Act by [Pub. L. 90–248, § 301](/us/pl/90/248/s301), and was covered by former [section 705 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s705).

Provisions similar to those comprising former section 713 were contained in section 541 of [act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title V](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531/tV), [49 Stat. 634](/us/stat/49/634) (formerly classified to [section 731 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s731)), prior to the general amendment and renumbering of title V of act Aug. 14, 1935, by [Pub. L. 90–248, § 301](/us/pl/90/248/s301).

#### Amendments

2025—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 119–37, § 6302(1)(A)](/us/pl/119/37/s6302/1/A), substituted “2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026” for “2023, for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, and for fiscal year 2025” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 119–4, § 2302(1)(A)](/us/pl/119/4/s2302/1/A), substituted “fiscal year 2025” for “the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on March 31, 2025” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 119–37, § 6302(1)(B)](/us/pl/119/37/s6302/1/B), substituted “fiscal years 2024 and 2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026” for “the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, and for fiscal year 2025”.

[Pub. L. 119–4, § 2302(1)(B)](/us/pl/119/4/s2302/1/B), substituted “fiscal year 2025” for “the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on March 31, 2025”.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 119–37, § 6302(2)](/us/pl/119/37/s6302/2), substituted “2026” for “2024 or 2025”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 119–37, § 6302(3)](/us/pl/119/37/s6302/3), substituted “2025, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2025, and ending on January 30, 2026, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2025” for “2023, for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, and for fiscal year 2025, an amount equal to the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2024 for fiscal year 2024”.

[Pub. L. 119–4, § 2302(2)](/us/pl/119/4/s2302/2), substituted “fiscal year 2025, an amount equal to the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2024” for “the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on March 31, 2025, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period”.

2024—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 118–158, § 3302(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/158/s3302/1/A), substituted “March 31, 2025” for “December 31, 2024” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 118–42, § 404(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/42/s404/1/A), in introductory provisions, struck out “and” after “January 19, 2024,” and inserted “for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024,” after “March 8, 2024,”.

[Pub. L. 118–35, § 143(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/35/s143/1/A), in introductory provisions, struck out “and” after “November 17, 2023,” and inserted “and for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024,” after “January 19, 2024,”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 118–158, § 3302(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/158/s3302/1/B), substituted “March 31, 2025” for “December 31, 2024”.

[Pub. L. 118–42, § 404(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/42/s404/1/B), struck out “and” after “January 19, 2024,” and substituted “, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024.” for period at end.

[Pub. L. 118–35, § 143(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/35/s143/1/B), struck out “and” after “November 17, 2023,” and inserted “, and for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024” after “January 19, 2024”.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 118–42, § 404(2)](/us/pl/118/42/s404/2), inserted “or 2025” after “fiscal year 2024”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 118–158, § 3302(2)](/us/pl/118/158/s3302/2), substituted “March 31, 2025” for “December 31, 2024”.

[Pub. L. 118–42, § 404(3)](/us/pl/118/42/s404/3), struck out “and” before “for the period beginning on January 20, 2024,” and substituted “fiscal year 2023, for the period beginning on March 9, 2024, and ending on September 30, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2024, and ending on December 31, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2024.” for “fiscal year 2023.”

[Pub. L. 118–35, § 143(2)](/us/pl/118/35/s143/2), struck out “and” before “for the period beginning on November 18, 2023,” and substituted “fiscal year 2023, and for the period beginning on January 20, 2024, and ending on March 8, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023.” for “fiscal year 2023.”

2023—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/A/i), in introductory provisions, substituted “, for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, and for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024,” for “and for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023,”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(A)(i)(I)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/A/i/I), inserted “and for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023” after “2023” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A)(i). [Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(A)(i)(II)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/A/i/II), inserted “or period” after “for the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/A/ii), inserted “, and for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024” after “November 17, 2023”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/A/ii), inserted at end “The previous sentence shall not apply with respect to State allotments under this paragraph for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023.”

Subsec. (a)(1)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/A/iii), substituted “for a fiscal year or period” for “for a fiscal year or the period”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/A/iii), inserted “or the period described in subparagraph (A)” after “for a fiscal year” and “or period” after “the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/B), substituted “for a fiscal year or period” for “for a fiscal year or the period”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(B)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/B), inserted “or the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” after “for a fiscal year” and “or period” after “such fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(C)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/C), substituted “for each period” for “for the period” in two places and “for a fiscal year or period” for “for a fiscal year or the period”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(1)(C)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/1/C), inserted “and for the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” after “fiscal years 2010 through 2023”, “and for the period so described” after “fiscal years 2012 through 2023”, and “or the period so described” after “for a fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(1)(D)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/1/D), substituted “each period described in paragraph (1)(A)” for “the period described in paragraph (1)(A)”.

Subsec. (c)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(2)(A)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/2/A), substituted “Subject to paragraph (3), from” for “From”.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(2)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/2), substituted “for a period described in subsection (a)(1)(A) for fiscal year 2024” for “for the period described in subsection (a)(1)(A)”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(2)(B)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/2/B), added par. (3).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 118–22, § 403(3)](/us/pl/118/22/s403/3), substituted “2023, for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023, and for the period beginning on November 18, 2023, and ending on January 19, 2024, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023” for “2023, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023”.

[Pub. L. 118–15, § 2353(3)](/us/pl/118/15/s2353/3), inserted “, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2023, and ending on November 17, 2023, an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for the corresponding period for fiscal year 2023” after “through 2023”.

2020—[Pub. L. 116–215](/us/pl/116/215) substituted “December 18, 2020” for “December 11, 2020” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 116–159](/us/pl/116/159) substituted “December 11, 2020” for “November 30, 2020” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(A)(i)(I)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/A/i/I), substituted “2023” for “2020 and for the period beginning October 1, 2020, and ending December 18, 2020” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 116–136, § 3822(1)(A)(i)](/us/pl/116/136/s3822/1/A/i), substituted “2020 and for the period beginning October 1, 2020, and ending November 30, 2020” for “2019 and for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending May 22, 2020” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A)(i). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(A)(i)(II)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/A/i/II), struck out “or period” after “for the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/A/ii), struck out at end: “The previous sentence shall not apply with respect to State allotments under this paragraph for the period beginning October 1, 2020, and ending December 18, 2020.”

[Pub. L. 116–136, § 3822(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/136/s3822/1/A/ii), substituted “October 1, 2020, and ending November 30, 2020” for “October 1, 2019, and ending May 22, 2020”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/A/iii), struck out “or the period described in subparagraph (A)” after “for a fiscal year” and “or period” after “for the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/B), struck out “or the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” after “for a fiscal year” and “or period” after “such fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(1)(C)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/1/C), in first sentence, substituted “2023” for “2020 and for the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” and “2023” for “2020 and for the period so described” and, in second sentence, struck out “or the period so described” before “that remain unexpended”.

[Pub. L. 116–136, § 3822(2)](/us/pl/116/136/s3822/2), substituted “2020” for “2019” in two places.

Subsec. (c)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/2/A), substituted “From” for “Subject to paragraph (3), from” in par. (1) and in introductory provisions of par. (2).

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/2/B), struck out par. (3). Text read as follows: “Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply with respect to any amount appropriated under subsection (f) for the period described in subsection (a)(1)(A).”

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 116–260, § 302(3)](/us/pl/116/260/s302/3), substituted “2023” for “2020, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2020, and ending on December 18, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020”.

[Pub. L. 116–136, § 3822(3)](/us/pl/116/136/s3822/3), substituted “2020, and for the period beginning on October 1, 2020, and ending on November 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020” for “2019 and $48,287,671 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending May 22, 2020”.

2019—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 116–94, § 304(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/94/s304/1/A), substituted “May 22, 2020” for “December 20, 2019” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 116–69, § 1202(1)(A)](/us/pl/116/69/s1202/1/A), substituted “December 20, 2019” for “November 21, 2019” in introductory provisions.

[Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(A)(i)(I)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/A/i/I), inserted “and for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending November 21, 2019” after “for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2019” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1)(A)(i). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(A)(i)(II)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/A/i/II), inserted “or period” after “for the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 116–94, § 304(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/94/s304/1/B), substituted “May 22, 2020” for “December 20, 2019”.

[Pub. L. 116–69, § 1202(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/69/s1202/1/B), substituted “December 20, 2019” for “November 21, 2019”.

[Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(A)(ii)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/A/ii), inserted at end “The previous sentence shall not apply with respect to State allotments under this paragraph for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending November 21, 2019.”

Subsec. (a)(1)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(A)(iii)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/A/iii), inserted “or the period described in subparagraph (A)” after “for a fiscal year” and “or period” after “for the fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(B)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/B), inserted “or the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” after “for a fiscal year” and substituted “the end of the second fiscal year following such fiscal year or period” for “the end of the second succeeding fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(C)(i)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/C/i), inserted “and for the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” after “for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2019”, “and for the period so described” after “for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2019”, and “or the period so described” after “for a fiscal year”.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(1)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/1/C/ii), substituted “continue through the period described in paragraph (1)(A)” for “continue through fiscal year 2019”.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(2)(A)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/2/A), substituted “Subject to paragraph (3), from the amount” for “From the amount”.

Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(2)(B)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/2/B), substituted “Subject to paragraph (3), from the amount” for “From the amount” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (c)(3). [Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(2)(C)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/2/C), added par. (3).

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 116–94, § 304(2)](/us/pl/116/94/s304/2), substituted “$48,287,671 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending May 22, 2020” for “$16,643,836 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending December 20, 2019”.

[Pub. L. 116–69, § 1202(2)](/us/pl/116/69/s1202/2), substituted “$16,643,836 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending December 20, 2019” for “$10,684,931 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending November 21, 2019”.

[Pub. L. 116–59, § 1202(3)](/us/pl/116/59/s1202/3), inserted “and $10,684,931 for the period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending November 21, 2019” after “for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2019”.

2018—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(1)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/1), substituted “2019” for “2017” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(4)(A). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(2)(A)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/2/A), substituted “2019” for “2017” in two places.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(2)(B)(i)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/2/B/i), substituted “Competitive prep grants” for “3-year grants” in heading.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(2)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/2/B/ii), substituted “continue through fiscal year 2019 grants awarded for any of fiscal years 2015 through 2017” for “solicit applications to award 3-year grants in each of fiscal years 2012 through 2017”.

Subsec. (c)(1). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(3)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/3), inserted “victims of human trafficking,” after “youth with HIV/AIDS,”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 115–123, § 50503(a)(4)](/us/pl/115/123/s50503/a/4), substituted “2019” for “2017”.

2015—Subsec. (a)(1)(A), (4)(A). [Pub. L. 114–10, § 215(1)](/us/pl/114/10/s215/1), substituted “2017” for “2015” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 114–10, § 215(2)](/us/pl/114/10/s215/2), substituted “through 2017” for “, 2013, 2014, and 2015”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 114–10, § 215(3)](/us/pl/114/10/s215/3), substituted “2017” for “2015”.

2014—Subsec. (a)(1)(A), (4)(A). [Pub. L. 113–93, § 206(1)](/us/pl/113/93/s206/1), substituted “2015” for “2014” wherever appearing.

Subsec. (a)(4)(B)(i). [Pub. L. 113–93, § 206(2)](/us/pl/113/93/s206/2), substituted “2014, and 2015” for “and 2014”.

Subsec. (f). [Pub. L. 113–93, § 206(3)](/us/pl/113/93/s206/3), substituted “2015” for “2014”.

2010—Subsec. (b)(2)(C)(i). [Pub. L. 111–148, § 10201(h)](/us/pl/111/148/s10201/h), amended cl. (i) generally. Prior to amendment, cl. (i) read as follows: “Healthy relationships, such as positive self-esteem and relationship dynamics, friendships, dating, romantic involvement, marriage, and family interactions.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

[Pub. L. 115–123, div. E, title V, § 50503(b)](/us/pl/115/123/dE/tV/s50503/b), Feb. 9, 2018, [132 Stat. 227](/us/stat/132/227), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall take effect as if enacted on October 1, 2017.”
