---
title: "§ 995. Accountability for contractors using military working dogs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S995"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section995"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title III, § 382(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tIII/s382/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2543](/us/stat/136/2543).)"
---
# § 995. Accountability for contractors using military working dogs

##### § 995. Accountability for contractors using military working dogs

(a) Annual Reporting Requirement for Contractors.— Each covered contract shall specify that the contractor is required to submit to the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), on an annual basis for the duration of the covered contract, a report containing an identification of—

(1) the number of military working dogs that are in the possession of the covered contractor and located outside of the continental United States in support of a military operation, if any; and

(2) the primary location of any such military working dogs.

(b) Covered Contract Defined.— In this section the term “covered contract” means a contract that the Secretary of Defense determines involves military working dogs.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title III, § 382(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tIII/s382/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2543](/us/stat/136/2543).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title III, § 382(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tIII/s382/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2543](/us/stat/136/2543), provided that: “[Section 995 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s995), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to a contract entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022].”

#### Deadline for Guidance

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title III, § 382(d)](/us/pl/117/263/dA/tIII/s382/d), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 2543](/us/stat/136/2543), provided that: “Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall issue the guidance on the annual reporting requirement under [section 995 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s995), United States Code, as added by subsection (a).”
