---
title: "§ 1813. Health care"
identifier: "USC-T38-S1813"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section1813"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1857](/us/stat/114/1857).)"
---
# § 1813. Health care

##### § 1813. Health care

(a) Needed Care.— The Secretary shall provide an eligible child such health care as the Secretary determines is needed by the child for that child’s covered birth defects or any disability that is associated with those birth defects.

(b) Authority for Care To Be Provided Directly or by Contract.— The Secretary may provide health care under this section directly or by contract or other arrangement with a health care provider.

(c) Definitions.— For purposes of this section, the definitions in [section 1803(c) of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1803/c) shall apply with respect to the provision of health care under this section, except that for such purposes—

(1) the reference to “specialized spina bifida clinic” in paragraph (2) of that section shall be treated as a reference to a specialized clinic treating the birth defect concerned under this section; and

(2) the reference to “vocational training under [section 1804 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1804)” in paragraph (8) of that section shall be treated as a reference to vocational training under [section 1814 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1814).

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–419, title IV, § 401(a)](/us/pl/106/419/tIV/s401/a), Nov. 1, 2000, [114 Stat. 1857](/us/stat/114/1857).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1813 was renumbered [section 3713 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3713).

Another prior section 1813, [Pub. L. 85–857](/us/pl/85/857), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1211](/us/stat/72/1211), automatically guaranteed loans made to a veteran if made for the purpose of purchasing business property, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 93–569, § 7(a)](/us/pl/93/569/s7/a), Dec. 31, 1974, [88 Stat. 1866](/us/stat/88/1866).
