---
title: "§ 285g–8. Prospective longitudinal study on adolescent health"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285g–8"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285g–8"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 452D, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title X, § 1031](/us/pl/103/43/tX/s1031), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 167](/us/stat/107/167).)"
---
# § 285g–8. Prospective longitudinal study on adolescent health

##### § 285g–8. Prospective longitudinal study on adolescent health

(a) In general Not later than October 1, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall commence a study for the purpose of providing information on the general health and well-being of adolescents in the United States, including, with respect to such adolescents, information on—

(1) the behaviors that promote health and the behaviors that are detrimental to health; and

(2) the influence on health of factors particular to the communities in which the adolescents reside.

(b) Design of study

(1) In general The study required in subsection (a) shall be a longitudinal study in which a substantial number of adolescents participate as subjects. With respect to the purpose described in such subsection, the study shall monitor the subjects throughout the period of the study to determine the health status of the subjects and any change in such status over time.

(2) Population-specific analyses The study required in subsection (a) shall be conducted with respect to the population of adolescents who are female, the population of adolescents who are male, various socioeconomic populations of adolescents, and various racial and ethnic populations of adolescents. The study shall be designed and conducted in a manner sufficient to provide for a valid analysis of whether there are significant differences among such populations in health status and whether and to what extent any such differences are due to factors particular to the populations involved.

(c) Coordination with Women’s Health Initiative With respect to the national study of women being conducted by the Secretary and known as the Women’s Health Initiative, the Secretary shall ensure that such study is coordinated with the component of the study required in subsection (a) that concerns adolescent females, including coordination in the design of the 2 studies.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 452D, as added [Pub. L. 103–43, title X, § 1031](/us/pl/103/43/tX/s1031), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 167](/us/stat/107/167).)*
