---
title: "§ 3649. Applicability of certain benefits"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3649"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3649"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1209](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1209), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 463](/us/stat/93/463); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. C, title XXXV, § 3527](/us/pl/104/201/dC/tXXXV/s3527), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2861](/us/stat/110/2861).)"
---
# § 3649. Applicability of certain benefits

##### § 3649. Applicability of certain benefits

(1) who is not a citizen of the United States;

(2) whose initial appointment by the Commission occurs after October 1, 1979; and

(3) who is covered by the Social Security System of the Republic of Panama pursuant to any provision of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements.

*([Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1209](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1209), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 463](/us/stat/93/463); [Pub. L. 104–201, div. C, title XXXV, § 3527](/us/pl/104/201/dC/tXXXV/s3527), Sept. 23, 1996, [110 Stat. 2861](/us/stat/110/2861).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–201](/us/pl/104/201) substituted “Applicability of certain benefits” for “Inapplicability of certain benefits to certain noncitizens” in section catchline and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text was comprised of subsec. (a) of [section 1209 of Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70/s1209) which read as follows: “Chapter 81 of title 5, relating to compensation for work injuries, chapter 83 of such title 5, relating to civil service retirement, chapter 87 of such title 5, relating to life insurance, and chapter 89 of such title 5, relating to health insurance, are inapplicable to any individual—

“(1) who is not a citizen of the United States;

“(2) whose initial appointment by the Commission occurs after October 1, 1979; and

“(3) who is covered by the Social Security System of the Republic of Panama pursuant to any provision of the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and related agreements.”

Prior to amendment, section 1209 also contained subsecs. (b) and (c) which amended sections 8701 and 8901 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
