---
title: "§ 60143. Idled pipelines"
identifier: "USC-T49-S60143"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section60143"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. R, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dR/tI/s109/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/134/2223).)"
---
# § 60143. Idled pipelines

##### § 60143. Idled pipelines

(a) Definition of Idled.— In this section, the term “idled”, with respect to a pipeline, means that the pipeline—

(1)

(A) has ceased normal operations; and

(B) will not resume service for a period of not less than 180 days;

(2) has been isolated from all sources of hazardous liquid, natural gas, or other gas; and

(3)

(A) has been purged of combustibles and hazardous materials and maintains a blanket of inert, nonflammable gas at low pressure; or

(B) has not been purged as described in subparagraph (A), but the volume of gas is so small that there is no potential hazard, as determined by the Secretary pursuant to a rule.

(b) Rulemaking.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the PIPES Act of 2020, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations prescribing the applicability of the pipeline safety requirements to idled natural or other gas transmission and hazardous liquid pipelines.

(2) Requirements.—

(A) In general.— The applicability of the regulations under paragraph (1) shall be based on the risk that idled natural or other gas transmission and hazardous liquid pipelines pose to the public, property, and the environment, and shall include requirements to resume operation.

(B) Inspection.— The Secretary or an appropriate State agency shall inspect each idled pipeline and verify that the pipeline has been purged of combustibles and hazardous materials, if required under subsection (a).

(C) Requirements for reinspection.— The Secretary shall determine the requirements for periodic reinspection of idled natural or other gas transmission and hazardous liquid pipelines.

(D) Resumption of operations.— As a condition to allowing an idled pipeline to resume operations, the Secretary shall require that, prior to resuming operations, the pipeline shall be—

(i) inspected with—

(I) hydrostatic pressure testing;

(II) an internal inspection device; or

(III) if the use of hydrostatic pressure testing or an internal inspection device is not technologically feasible, another comparable technology or practice; and

(ii) in compliance with regulations promulgated under this chapter, including any regulations that became effective while the pipeline was idled.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–260, div. R, title I, § 109(a)](/us/pl/116/260/dR/tI/s109/a), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 2223](/us/stat/134/2223).)*

#### References in Text

The date of enactment of the PIPES Act of 2020, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is the date of enactment of div. R of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), which was approved Dec. 27, 2020.
