---
title: "§ 4851a. Purposes"
identifier: "USC-T42-S4851a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section4851a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–550, title X, § 1003](/us/pl/102/550/tX/s1003), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3897](/us/stat/106/3897).)"
---
# § 4851a. Purposes

##### § 4851a. Purposes

(1) to develop a national strategy to build the infrastructure necessary to eliminate lead-based paint hazards in all housing as expeditiously as possible;

(2) to reorient the national approach to the presence of lead-based paint in housing to implement, on a priority basis, a broad program to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards in the Nation’s housing stock;

(3) to encourage effective action to prevent childhood lead poisoning by establishing a workable framework for lead-based paint hazard evaluation and reduction and by ending the current confusion over reasonable standards of care;

(4) to ensure that the existence of lead-based paint hazards is taken into account in the development of Government housing policies and in the sale, rental, and renovation of homes and apartments;

(5) to mobilize national resources expeditiously, through a partnership among all levels of government and the private sector, to develop the most promising, cost-effective methods for evaluating and reducing lead-based paint hazards;

(6) to reduce the threat of childhood lead poisoning in housing owned, assisted, or transferred by the Federal Government; and

(7) to educate the public concerning the hazards and sources of lead-based paint poisoning and steps to reduce and eliminate such hazards.

*([Pub. L. 102–550, title X, § 1003](/us/pl/102/550/tX/s1003), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3897](/us/stat/106/3897).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning title X of [Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3897](/us/stat/106/3897), known as the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4851 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4851) and Tables.
