---
title: "§ 3474. Conservation incentives landowner education program"
identifier: "USC-T16-S3474"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section3474"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–9, title III, § 3002](/us/pl/116/9/tIII/s3002), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 756](/us/stat/133/756).)"
---
# § 3474. Conservation incentives landowner education program

##### § 3474. Conservation incentives landowner education program

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after March 12, 2019, the Secretary shall establish a conservation incentives landowner education program (referred to in this section as the “program”).

(b) Purpose of program The program shall provide information on Federal conservation programs available to landowners interested in undertaking conservation actions on the land of the landowners, including options under each conservation program available to achieve the conservation goals of the program, such as—

(1) fee title land acquisition;

(2) donation; and

(3) perpetual and term conservation easements or agreements.

(c) Availability The Secretary shall ensure that the information provided under the program is made available to—

(1) interested landowners; and

(2) the public.

(d) Notification In any case in which the Secretary contacts a landowner directly about participation in a Federal conservation program, the Secretary shall, in writing—

(1) notify the landowner of the program; and

(2) make available information on the conservation program options that may be available to the landowner.

*([Pub. L. 116–9, title III, § 3002](/us/pl/116/9/tIII/s3002), Mar. 12, 2019, [133 Stat. 756](/us/stat/133/756).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, and not as part of title XV of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 116–9](/us/pl/116/9/s2), set out as a note under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1).
