---
title: "§ 413. Fees to cover cost of work performed for Indians"
identifier: "USC-T25-S413"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section413"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Feb. 14, 1920, ch. 75, § 1](/us/act/1920-02-14/ch75/s1), [41 Stat. 415](/us/stat/41/415); [Mar. 1, 1933, ch. 158](/us/act/1933-03-01/ch158), [47 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/47/1417).)"
---
# § 413. Fees to cover cost of work performed for Indians

##### § 413. Fees to cover cost of work performed for Indians

The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized, in his discretion, and under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, to collect reasonable fees to cover the cost of any and all work performed for Indian tribes or for individual Indians, to be paid by vendees, lessees, or assignees, or deducted from the proceeds of sale, leases, or other sources of revenue: *Provided*, That the amounts so collected shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, except when the expenses of the work are paid from Indian tribal funds, in which event they shall be credited to such funds.

*([Feb. 14, 1920, ch. 75, § 1](/us/act/1920-02-14/ch75/s1), [41 Stat. 415](/us/stat/41/415); [Mar. 1, 1933, ch. 158](/us/act/1933-03-01/ch158), [47 Stat. 1417](/us/stat/47/1417).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1933—Act Mar. 1, 1933, substituted “to collect reasonable fees to cover the cost of any and all work performed for Indian tribes or individual Indians” for “to charge a reasonable fee for the work incident to the sale, leasing, or assigning of such lands, or in the sale of the timber, or in the administration of Indian forests” and “deducted from the proceeds of sale, leases, or other sources of revenue” for “from the proceeds of sales”, struck out introductory text “In the sale of all Indian allotments, or in leases, or assignment of leases covering, tribal or allotted lands for mineral, farming, grazing, business or other purposes, or in the sale of timber thereon” and provided for the use of discretion and the crediting of Indian tribal funds.
