---
title: "§ 3371b. Information sharing with State election officials"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3371b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3371b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXV, § 6506](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXV/s6506), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/133/2206).)"
---
# § 3371b. Information sharing with State election officials

##### § 3371b. Information sharing with State election officials

(a) State defined In this section, the term “State” means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.

(b) Security clearances

(1) In general Not later than 30 days after December 20, 2019, the Director of National Intelligence shall support the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and any other official of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a security clearance up to the top secret level for each eligible chief election official of a State or the District of Columbia, and additional eligible designees of such election official as appropriate, at the time that such election official assumes such position.

(2) Interim clearances Consistent with applicable policies and directives, the Director of National Intelligence may issue interim clearances, for a period to be determined by the Director, to a chief election official as described in paragraph (1) and up to one designee of such official under such paragraph.

(c) Information sharing

(1) In general The Director of National Intelligence shall assist the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis and the Under Secretary responsible for overseeing critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and other related programs of the Department (as specified in [section 113(a)(1)(H) of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s113/a/1/H)) with sharing any appropriate classified information related to threats to election systems and to the integrity of the election process with chief election officials and such designees who have received a security clearance under subsection (b).

(2) Coordination The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis shall coordinate with the Director of National Intelligence and the Under Secretary responsible for overseeing critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity, and other related programs of the Department (as specified in [section 113(a)(1)(H) of title 6](/us/usc/t6/s113/a/1/H)) to facilitate the sharing of information to the affected Secretaries of State or States.

*([Pub. L. 116–92, div. E, title LXV, § 6506](/us/pl/116/92/dE/tLXV/s6506), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 2206](/us/stat/133/2206).)*
