---
title: "§ 2009. Annual budget"
identifier: "USC-T39-S2009"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section2009"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 742](/us/stat/84/742); [Pub. L. 93–328, § 3](/us/pl/93/328/s3), June 30, 1974, [88 Stat. 288](/us/stat/88/288); [Pub. L. 97–258, § 3](/us/pl/97/258/s3)(*l*)(2), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1066](/us/stat/96/1066); [Pub. L. 109–435, title VI, § 603(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/435/tVI/s603/c/1), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3241](/us/stat/120/3241); [Pub. L. 117–108, title II, § 205(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/108/tII/s205/b/2), Apr. 6, 2022, [136 Stat. 1148](/us/"
---
# § 2009. Annual budget

##### § 2009. Annual budget

The Postal Service shall cause to be prepared annually a budget program which shall be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, under such rules and regulations as the President may establish as to the date of submission, the form and content, the classifications of data, and the manner in which such budget program shall be prepared and presented. The budget program shall be a business-type budget, or plan of operations, with due allowance given to the need for flexibility, including provision for emergencies and contingencies, in order that the Postal Service may properly carry out its activities as authorized by law. The budget program shall contain estimates of the financial condition and operations of the Postal Service for the current and ensuing fiscal years and the actual condition and results of operation for the last completed fiscal year. Such budget program shall include a statement of financial condition, a statement of income and expense, an analysis of surplus or deficit, a statement of sources and application of funds, and such other supplementary statements and information as are necessary or desirable to make known the financial condition and operations of the Postal Service. Such statements shall include estimates of operations by major types of activities, together with estimates of administrative expenses and estimates of borrowings. The budget program shall also include separate statements of the amounts which (1) the Postal Service requests to be appropriated under subsections (b) and (c) of section 2401, and (2) the Office of Inspector General of the United States Postal Service requests to be appropriated, out of the Postal Service Fund, under [section 415(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s415/f). The President shall include these amounts, with his recommendations but without revision, in the budget transmitted to Congress under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105).

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 742](/us/stat/84/742); [Pub. L. 93–328, § 3](/us/pl/93/328/s3), June 30, 1974, [88 Stat. 288](/us/stat/88/288); [Pub. L. 97–258, § 3](/us/pl/97/258/s3)(*l*)(2), Sept. 13, 1982, [96 Stat. 1066](/us/stat/96/1066); [Pub. L. 109–435, title VI, § 603(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/435/tVI/s603/c/1), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3241](/us/stat/120/3241); [Pub. L. 117–108, title II, § 205(b)(2)](/us/pl/117/108/tII/s205/b/2), Apr. 6, 2022, [136 Stat. 1148](/us/stat/136/1148); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(67)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/67), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4350](/us/stat/136/4350).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286), which directed substitution of “[section 415(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s415/f),” for “section 8G(f) of the Inspector General Act of 1978,”, was executed by substituting “[section 415(f) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s415/f)” for “section 8G(f) of the Inspector General Act of 1978” to reflect the probable intent of Congress and the intervening amendment by [Pub. L. 117–108](/us/pl/117/108), which had struck out the comma after “1978”. See below.

[Pub. L. 117–108](/us/pl/117/108) inserted “and” before “(2)” and struck out “, and (3) the Postal Regulatory Commission requests to be appropriated, out of the Postal Service Fund, under [section 504(d) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s504/d)” after “Inspector General Act of 1978”.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–435](/us/pl/109/435) substituted “The budget program shall also include separate statements of the amounts which (1) the Postal Service requests to be appropriated under subsections (b) and (c) of section 2401, (2) the Office of Inspector General of the United States Postal Service requests to be appropriated, out of the Postal Service Fund, under section 8G(f) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, and (3) the Postal Regulatory Commission requests to be appropriated, out of the Postal Service Fund, under [section 504(d) of this title](/us/usc/t39/s504/d).” for “The budget program shall also include separate statements of the amounts which the Postal Service requests to be appropriated under subsections (b) and (c) of [section 2401 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s2401).”

1982—[Pub. L. 97–258](/us/pl/97/258) substituted “[section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105)” for “[section 11 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s11)”.

1974—[Pub. L. 93–328](/us/pl/93/328) required the budget program to include separate statements of the amounts which the Postal Service requests to be appropriated under section 2401(b) and (c) of this title and the President to include these amounts in the budget transmitted to Congress.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2006 Amendment; Savings Provisions

Amendment by [Pub. L. 109–435](/us/pl/109/435) applicable with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after Oct. 1, 2008, subject to savings provisions, see [section 603(d) of Pub. L. 109–435](/us/pl/109/435/s603/d), set out as a note under [section 504 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s504).

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).

#### Operations of Inspector General as Major Type of Activity for Budget Purposes

[Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(f) [title VI, § 662(a)(3)]](/us/pl/104/208/dA/tI/s101/f/tVI/s662/a/3), Sept. 30, 1996, [110 Stat. 3009–314](/us/stat/110/3009-314), 3009–379, provided that: “For purposes of the fifth sentence of [section 2009 of title 39](/us/usc/t39/s2009), United States Code, the operations of the Office of Inspector General of the United States Postal Service shall be considered a major type of activity.”
