---
title: "§ 2725. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T18-S2725"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section2725"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXX, § 300002(a)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXX/s300002/a), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2102](/us/stat/108/2102); amended [Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title III, § 309(b)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tIII/s309/b), Oct. 23, 2000, [114 Stat. 1356](/us/stat/114/1356), 1356A–24.)"
---
# § 2725. Definitions

##### § 2725. Definitions

(1) “motor vehicle record” means any record that pertains to a motor vehicle operator’s permit, motor vehicle title, motor vehicle registration, or identification card issued by a department of motor vehicles;

(2) “person” means an individual, organization or entity, but does not include a State or agency thereof;

(3) “personal information” means information that identifies an individual, including an individual’s photograph, social security number, driver identification number, name, address (but not the 5-digit zip code), telephone number, and medical or disability information, but does not include information on vehicular accidents, driving violations, and driver’s status.11 So in original. The period probably should be a semicolon.

(4) “highly restricted personal information” means an individual’s photograph or image, social security number, medical or disability information; and

(5) “express consent” means consent in writing, including consent conveyed electronically that bears an electronic signature as defined in [section 106(5) of Public Law 106–229](/us/pl/106/229/s106/5).

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXX, § 300002(a)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXX/s300002/a), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2102](/us/stat/108/2102); amended [Pub. L. 106–346, § 101(a) [title III, § 309(b)]](/us/pl/106/346/s101/a/tIII/s309/b), Oct. 23, 2000, [114 Stat. 1356](/us/stat/114/1356), 1356A–24.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 106(5) of Public Law 106–229](/us/pl/106/229/s106/5), referred to in par. (5), is classified to [section 7006(5) of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s7006/5), Commerce and Trade.

#### Amendments

2000—Pars. (4), (5). [Pub. L. 106–346](/us/pl/106/346) added pars. (4) and (5).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 3 years after Sept. 13, 1994, with provisions relating to release of personal information before the effective date and compliance after such date, see [section 300003 of Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322/s300003), set out as a note under [section 2721 of this title](/us/usc/t18/s2721).
