---
title: "§ 283a–1. Annual reporting to prevent fraud and abuse"
identifier: "USC-T42-S283a–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section283a–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 403B, as added [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/a/3), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/120/3691); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title II, § 2042(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tII/s2042/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/130/1073).)"
---
# § 283a–1. Annual reporting to prevent fraud and abuse

##### § 283a–1. Annual reporting to prevent fraud and abuse

(a) Whistleblower complaints

(1) In general On an annual basis, the Director of NIH shall submit to the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report summarizing the activities of the National Institutes of Health relating to whistleblower complaints.

(2) Contents For each whistleblower complaint pending during the year for which a report is submitted under this subsection, the report shall identify the following:

(A) Each agency of the National Institutes of Health involved.

(B) The status of the complaint.

(C) The resolution of the complaint to date.

(b) First report The first report under subsection (a) shall be submitted not later than 1 year after January 15, 2007.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 403B, as added [Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(a)(3)](/us/pl/109/482/tI/s104/a/3), Jan. 15, 2007, [120 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/120/3691); amended [Pub. L. 114–255, div. A, title II, § 2042(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dA/tII/s2042/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/130/1073).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2016—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) redesignated subsec. (c) as (b), substituted “subsection (a)” for “subsections (a) and (b)”, and struck out former subsec. (b), which related to annual report by the Director of NIH on experts and consultants whose services were obtained by the National Institutes of Health or its agencies.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see [section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482](/us/pl/109/482/s109), set out as an Effective Date of 2007 Amendment note under [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s281).
