---
title: "§ 1309. Amounts disregarded not to be taken into account in determining eligibility of other individuals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1309"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1309"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1109, as added [July 18, 1952, ch. 945, § 7](/us/act/1952-07-18/ch945/s7), [66 Stat. 778](/us/stat/66/778); amended [Pub. L. 87–543, title I, § 141(c)](/us/pl/87/543/tI/s141/c), July 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 205](/us/stat/76/205); [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 121(c)(2)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s121/c/2), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 352](/us/stat/79/352); [Pub. L. 90–248, title II, § 241(c)(2)](/us/pl/90/248/tII/s241/c/2), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 917"
---
# § 1309. Amounts disregarded not to be taken into account in determining eligibility of other individuals

##### § 1309. Amounts disregarded not to be taken into account in determining eligibility of other individuals

Any amount which is disregarded (or set aside for future needs) in determining the eligibility of and amount of the aid or assistance for any individual under a State plan approved under subchapter I, X, XIV, XVI, or XIX,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. shall not be taken into consideration in determining the eligibility of and amount of aid or assistance for any other individual under a State plan approved under any other of such subchapters.

*([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531](/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531), title XI, § 1109, as added [July 18, 1952, ch. 945, § 7](/us/act/1952-07-18/ch945/s7), [66 Stat. 778](/us/stat/66/778); amended [Pub. L. 87–543, title I, § 141(c)](/us/pl/87/543/tI/s141/c), July 25, 1962, [76 Stat. 205](/us/stat/76/205); [Pub. L. 89–97, title I, § 121(c)(2)](/us/pl/89/97/tI/s121/c/2), July 30, 1965, [79 Stat. 352](/us/stat/79/352); [Pub. L. 90–248, title II, § 241(c)(2)](/us/pl/90/248/tII/s241/c/2), Jan. 2, 1968, [81 Stat. 917](/us/stat/81/917); [Pub. L. 104–193, title I, § 108(g)(1)](/us/pl/104/193/tI/s108/g/1), Aug. 22, 1996, [110 Stat. 2168](/us/stat/110/2168).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1996—[Pub. L. 104–193](/us/pl/104/193) struck out “or part A of subchapter IV,” after “subchapter I, X, XIV, XVI, or XIX,”.

1968—[Pub. L. 90–248](/us/pl/90/248) struck out “IV,” after “I,” and inserted “, or part A of subchapter IV,” after “XIX”.

1965—[Pub. L. 89–97](/us/pl/89/97) substituted requirement that amounts disregarded be not taken into account in determining eligibility of other individuals, for former provisions which had provided that: “Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 302(a)(10)(A), 602(a)(7), 1202(a)(8), 1352(a)(8), and 1382(a)(14) of this title, a State plan approved under subchapter I, IV, X, XIV, or XVI of this chapter may until June 30, 1954, and thereafter shall provide that where earned income has been disregarded in determining the need of an individual receiving aid to the blind under a State plan approved under subchapter X of this chapter, the earned income so disregarded (but not in excess of the amount specified in [section 1202(a)(8) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1202/a/8)) shall not be taken into consideration in determining the need of any other individual for assistance under a State plan approved under subchapter I, IV, X, XIV, or XVI of this chapter”.

1962—[Pub. L. 87–543](/us/pl/87/543) substituted reference to section 302(a)(10)(A) for 302(a)(7) and inserted references to section 1382(a)(14) and subchapter XVI.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 104–193](/us/pl/104/193) effective July 1, 1997, with transition rules relating to State options to accelerate such date, rules relating to claims, actions, and proceedings commenced before such date, rules relating to closing out of accounts for terminated or substantially modified programs and continuance in office of Assistant Secretary for Family Support, and provisions relating to termination of entitlement under AFDC program, see [section 116 of Pub. L. 104–193](/us/pl/104/193/s116), as amended, set out as an Effective Date note under [section 601 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s601).
