---
title: "§ 227b–1. Access to number resources"
identifier: "USC-T47-S227b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section227b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–105, § 6](/us/pl/116/105/s6), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3282](/us/stat/133/3282).)"
---
# § 227b–1. Access to number resources

##### § 227b–1. Access to number resources

(a) In general

(1) Examination of FCC policies Not later than 180 days after December 30, 2019, the Commission shall commence a proceeding to determine how Commission policies regarding access to number resources, including number resources for toll-free and non-toll-free telephone numbers, could be modified, including by establishing registration and compliance obligations, and requirements that providers of voice service given access to number resources take sufficient steps to know the identity of the customers of such providers, to help reduce access to numbers by potential perpetrators of violations of section 227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 227(b)](/us/usc/t47/s227/b)).

(2) Regulations If the Commission determines under paragraph (1) that modifying the policies described in that paragraph could help achieve the goal described in that paragraph, the Commission shall prescribe regulations to implement those policy modifications.

(b) Authority Any person who knowingly, through an employee, agent, officer, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, by or through any means or device whatsoever, is a party to obtaining number resources, including number resources for toll-free and non-toll-free telephone numbers, from a common carrier regulated under title II of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 201](/us/usc/t47/s201) et seq.), in violation of a regulation prescribed under subsection (a), shall, notwithstanding section 503(b)(5) of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 503(b)(5)](/us/usc/t47/s503/b/5)), be subject to a forfeiture penalty under section 503(b) of that Act ([47 U.S.C. 503(b)](/us/usc/t47/s503/b)). A forfeiture penalty under this subsection shall be in addition to any other penalty provided for by law.

*([Pub. L. 116–105, § 6](/us/pl/116/105/s6), Dec. 30, 2019, [133 Stat. 3282](/us/stat/133/3282).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (b), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064). Title II of the Act is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Pallone-Thune Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence Act, also known as the Pallone-Thune TRACED Act, and not as part of the Communications Act of 1934 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition

For definition of “Commission” as used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 116–105](/us/pl/116/105/s2), set out as a note under [section 227 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s227).
