---
title: "§ 9551. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S9551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section9551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title III, § 100301](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tIII/s100301), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/135/1458).)"
---
# § 9551. Definitions

##### § 9551. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.

(2) Eligible entity The term “eligible entity” means—

(A) a minority-serving institution; or

(B) a consortium of institutions of higher education that is led by a minority-serving institution.

(3) MBDA Rural Business Center The term “MBDA Rural Business Center” means an MBDA Business Center that provides technical business assistance to minority business enterprises located in rural areas.

(4) MBDA Rural Business Center agreement The term “MBDA Rural Business Center agreement” means an MBDA Business Center agreement that establishes the terms by which the recipient of the Federal assistance award that is the subject of the agreement shall operate an MBDA Rural Business Center.

(5) Minority-serving institution The term “minority-serving institution” means an institution described in any of paragraphs (1) through (7) of [section 1067q(a) of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1067q/a).

(6) Rural area The term “rural area” has the meaning given the term in [section 1991(a) of title 7](/us/usc/t7/s1991/a).

(7) Rural minority business enterprise The term “rural minority business enterprise” means a minority business enterprise located in a rural area.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title III, § 100301](/us/pl/117/58/dK/tIII/s100301), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/135/1458).)*
