---
title: "§ 2015. Annual report; audits"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2015"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2015"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1135](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1135), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042](/us/pl/107/110/tX/s1042), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 2056](/us/stat/115/2056).)"
---
# § 2015. Annual report; audits

##### § 2015. Annual report; audits

(a) Annual reports The Secretary shall submit to each appropriate committee of Congress, all Bureau-funded schools, and the tribal governing bodies of such schools, a detailed annual report on the state of education within the Bureau, and any problems encountered in Indian education during the period covered by the report, that includes—

(1) suggestions for the improvement of the Bureau educational system and for increasing tribal or local Indian control of such system; and

(2) information on the status of tribally controlled community colleges.

(b) Budget request The annual budget request for the education programs of the Bureau, as submitted as part of the President’s next annual budget request under [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105) shall include the plans required by sections 2001(c), 2002(c), and 2004(c) 11 So in original. Probably should be “2005(c)”. of this title.

(c) Financial and compliance audits The Inspector General of the Department of the Interior shall establish a system to ensure that financial and compliance audits, based upon the extent to which a school described in subsection (a) has complied with the local financial plan under [section 2010 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s2010), are conducted of each Bureau-operated school at least once every 3 years.

(d) Administrative evaluation of schools The Director shall, at least once every 3 to 5 years, conduct a comprehensive evaluation of Bureau-operated schools. Such evaluation shall be in addition to any other program review or evaluation that may be required under Federal law.

*([Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1135](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1135), as added [Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042](/us/pl/107/110/tX/s1042), Jan. 8, 2002, [115 Stat. 2056](/us/stat/115/2056).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2015, [Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1135](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1135), as added [Pub. L. 103–382, title III, § 381](/us/pl/103/382/tIII/s381), Oct. 20, 1994, [108 Stat. 4010](/us/stat/108/4010), related to uniform education procedures and practices, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110).

Another prior section 2015, [Pub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1135](/us/pl/95/561/tXI/s1135), Nov. 1, 1978, [92 Stat. 2327](/us/stat/92/2327), related to recruitment policy for Indian educators and promotion plan for Bureau employees, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 103–382](/us/pl/103/382).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 8, 2002, except with respect to certain noncompetitive programs and competitive programs, see [section 5 of Pub. L. 107–110](/us/pl/107/110/s5), set out as a note under [section 6301 of Title 20](/us/usc/t20/s6301), Education.
