---
title: "§ 3131. Congressional statement of purpose"
identifier: "USC-T15-S3131"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section3131"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–523, title III, § 301](/us/pl/95/523/tIII/s301), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/92/1904).)"
---
# § 3131. Congressional statement of purpose

##### § 3131. Congressional statement of purpose

(a) Establishment of procedures for review and action The purposes of this subchapter are to establish procedures for congressional review and action with respect to the Economic Report of the President (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Economic Report”), the report of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the other policies and provisions of this chapter and the Employment Act of 1946 [[15 U.S.C. 1021](/us/usc/t15/s1021) et seq.].

(b) Legislative action The Congress shall initiate or develop such legislation as it deems necessary to implement proposals and objectives pursuant to this chapter and the Employment Act of 1946 [[15 U.S.C. 1021](/us/usc/t15/s1021) et seq.] after such modification in such proposals as it deems desirable. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the Congress or any of its committees from considering or initiating at any time legislative action in furtherance of the goals and purposes of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 95–523, title III, § 301](/us/pl/95/523/tIII/s301), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/92/1904).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of [Pub. L. 95–523](/us/pl/95/523), Oct. 27, 1978, [92 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/92/1904), which enacted this subchapter and amended sections 632 and 636 of Title 2, The Congress. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3101 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3101) and Tables.

For definition of “this chapter”, referred to in text, see References in Text note set out under [section 3102 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s3102).

The Employment Act of 1946, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is [act Feb. 20, 1946, ch. 33](/us/act/1946-02-20/ch33), [60 Stat. 23](/us/stat/60/23), which is classified generally to chapter 21 (§ 1021 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1021 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1021) and Tables.
