---
title: "§ 3049. Non-reimbursable detail of other personnel"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3049"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3049"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 113A, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s302/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2658](/us/stat/124/2658); amended [Pub. L. 112–18, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/112/18/tIII/s303/a), June 8, 2011, [125 Stat. 226](/us/stat/125/226); [Pub. L. 112–277, title III, § 303](/us/pl/112/277/tIII/s303), Jan. 14, 2013, [126 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/126/2471).)"
---
# § 3049. Non-reimbursable detail of other personnel

##### § 3049. Non-reimbursable detail of other personnel

An officer or employee of the United States or member of the Armed Forces may be detailed to the staff of an element of the intelligence community funded through the National Intelligence Program from another element of the intelligence community or from another element of the United States Government on a non-reimbursable basis, as jointly agreed to by the heads of the receiving and detailing elements, for a period not to exceed three years. This section does not limit any other source of authority for reimbursable or non-reimbursable details. A non-reimbursable detail made under this section shall not be considered an augmentation of the appropriations of the receiving element of the intelligence community.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title I, § 113A, as added [Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 302(a)](/us/pl/111/259/tIII/s302/a), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2658](/us/stat/124/2658); amended [Pub. L. 112–18, title III, § 303(a)](/us/pl/112/18/tIII/s303/a), June 8, 2011, [125 Stat. 226](/us/stat/125/226); [Pub. L. 112–277, title III, § 303](/us/pl/112/277/tIII/s303), Jan. 14, 2013, [126 Stat. 2471](/us/stat/126/2471).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404h–1 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404h–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers of this title referenced in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections prior to their editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2013—[Pub. L. 112–277](/us/pl/112/277) substituted “three years.” for “two years.” and inserted at end “A non-reimbursable detail made under this section shall not be considered an augmentation of the appropriations of the receiving element of the intelligence community.”

2011—[Pub. L. 112–18](/us/pl/112/18) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Except as provided in [section 402c(g)(2) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s402c/g/2) and [section 404h of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404h), and notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or employee of the United States or member of the Armed Forces may be detailed to the staff of an element of the intelligence community funded through the National Intelligence Program from another element of the intelligence community or from another element of the United States Government on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, as jointly agreed to by the head of the receiving element and the head of the detailing element, for a period not to exceed 2 years.”
