---
title: "§ 350l–1. Annual report to Congress"
identifier: "USC-T21-S350l–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-section350l–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "21"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–353, title II, § 206(f)](/us/pl/111/353/tII/s206/f), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3943](/us/stat/124/3943).)"
---
# § 350l–1. Annual report to Congress

##### § 350l–1. Annual report to Congress

(1) In general Not later than 2 years after January 4, 2011, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall submit a report to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives on the use of recall authority under section 350*l* of this title (as added by subsection (a)) 11 See References in Text note below. and any public health advisories issued by the Secretary that advise against the consumption of an article of food on the ground that the article of food is adulterated and poses an imminent danger to health.

(2) Content The report under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to the report year—

(A) the identity of each article of food that was the subject of a public health advisory described in paragraph (1), an opportunity to cease distribution and recall under subsection (a) of section 350*l* of this title, or a mandatory recall order under subsection (b) of such section;

(B) the number of responsible parties, as defined in [section 350f of this title](/us/usc/t21/s350f), formally given the opportunity to cease distribution of an article of food and recall such article, as described in section 350*l*(a) of such title;

(C) the number of responsible parties described in subparagraph (B) who did not cease distribution of or recall an article of food after given the opportunity to cease distribution or recall under section 350*l*(a) of this title;

(D) the number of recall orders issued under section 350*l*(b) of this title; and

(E) a description of any instances in which there was no testing that confirmed adulteration of an article of food that was the subject of a recall under section 350*l*(b) of this title or a public health advisory described in paragraph (1).

*([Pub. L. 111–353, title II, § 206(f)](/us/pl/111/353/tII/s206/f), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3943](/us/stat/124/3943).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Subsection (a), referred to in par. (1), means subsec. (a) of [section 206 of Pub. L. 111–353](/us/pl/111/353/s206).

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, and not as part of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction

Nothing in this section to be construed to alter jurisdiction and authorities established under certain other Acts or in a manner inconsistent with international agreements to which the United States is a party, see sections 2251 and 2252 of this title.
