---
title: "§ 303. Director of the Government Publishing Office and Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: pay"
identifier: "USC-T44-S303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/82/1239); [Pub. L. 94–82, title II, § 204(c)(1)](/us/pl/94/82/tII/s204/c/1), Aug. 9, 1975, [89 Stat. 421](/us/stat/89/421); [Pub. L. 101–520, title II, § 209](/us/pl/101/520/tII/s209), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2274](/us/stat/104/2274); [Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s1301/a), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1033](/us/stat/117/1033); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/"
---
# § 303. Director of the Government Publishing Office and Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: pay

##### § 303. Director of the Government Publishing Office and Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office: pay

The annual rate of pay for the Director of the Government Publishing Office shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level II of the Executive Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5. The annual rate of pay for the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level III of such Executive Schedule.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1239](/us/stat/82/1239); [Pub. L. 94–82, title II, § 204(c)(1)](/us/pl/94/82/tII/s204/c/1), Aug. 9, 1975, [89 Stat. 421](/us/stat/89/421); [Pub. L. 101–520, title II, § 209](/us/pl/101/520/tII/s209), Nov. 5, 1990, [104 Stat. 2274](/us/stat/104/2274); [Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 1301(a)](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s1301/a), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1033](/us/stat/117/1033); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c), (e), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 39a ([Pub. L. 88–426, title II, § 203(c)](/us/pl/88/426/tII/s203/c), (d), Aug. 14, 1964, [78 Stat. 415](/us/stat/78/415), as amended [Pub. L. 90–206, title II, § 219(2)](/us/pl/90/206/tII/s219/2), (3), Dec. 16, 1967, [81 Stat. 639](/us/stat/81/639).)

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Levels II and III of the Executive Schedule, referred to in text, are set out in sections 5313 and 5314, respectively, of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(e)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/e), substituted “Deputy Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Deputy Public Printer” in section catchline and text.

[Pub. L. 113–235, § 1301(c)](/us/pl/113/235/s1301/c), substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” in section catchline and text.

2003—[Pub. L. 108–83](/us/pl/108/83) reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The annual rate of pay for the Public Printer shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level III of the Executive Schedule of subchapter II of chapter 53 of Title 5. The annual rate of pay for the Deputy Public Printer shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level IV of such Executive Schedule.”

1990—[Pub. L. 101–520](/us/pl/101/520) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The annual rate of pay for the Public Printer shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5. The annual rate of pay for the Deputy Public Printer shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for level V of such Executive Schedule.”

1975—[Pub. L. 94–82](/us/pl/94/82) substituted “pay” for “compensation” in section catchline, and substituted provisions setting the rate of pay for the Public Printer at a rate equal to the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule and the rate of pay for Deputy Public Printer at a rate equal to the rate for level V of such Schedule for provisions setting the compensation of the Public Printer and the Deputy Public Printer at the rate of $28,750 and $27,500 per annum, respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

[Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 1301(b)](/us/pl/108/83/tI/s1301/b), Sept. 30, 2003, [117 Stat. 1033](/us/stat/117/1033), provided that: “The amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall take effect on the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 2003].”

#### Salary Increases

1987—Salaries of Public Printer and Deputy Public Printer increased respectively to $77,500 and $72,500 per annum, on recommendation of the President of the United States, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358), The Congress.

1977—Salaries of the Public Printer and Deputy Public Printer increased respectively to $50,000 and $47,500 per annum, on recommendation of the President of the United States, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358).

1969—Salaries of the Public Printer and Deputy Public Printer increased respectively from $28,750 and $27,500 to $38,000 and $36,000 per annum, commencing on the first day of the pay period which begins after Feb. 14, 1969, on recommendation of the President of the United States, see note set out under [section 358 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s358).
