---
title: "§ 1862p–13. Tribal colleges and universities program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1862p–13"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1862p–13"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 111–358, title V, § 525](/us/pl/111/358/tV/s525), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4019](/us/stat/124/4019); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title V, § 10525(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tV/s10525/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/136/1625).)"
---
# § 1862p–13. Tribal colleges and universities program

##### § 1862p–13. Tribal colleges and universities program

(a) In general The Director shall continue to support a program to award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to tribal colleges and universities (as defined in [section 1059c of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059c), including institutions described in [section 1059d of title 20](/us/usc/t20/s1059d)), to enhance the quality of undergraduate STEM education at such institutions and to increase the retention and graduation rates of Native American students pursuing associate’s or baccalaureate degrees in STEM.

(b) Program components Grants awarded under this section shall support—

(1) activities to improve courses and curriculum in STEM;

(2) faculty development;

(3) stipends for undergraduate students participating in research; and

(4) other activities consistent with subsection (a), as determined by the Director.

(c) Instrumentation Funding provided under this section may be used for laboratory equipment and materials.

(d) Awards to broaden Tribal College and University student participation in computer science

(1) In general The Director, as part of the program authorized under this section, shall make awards on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to eligible entities to increase the participation of Tribal populations in computer science and computational thinking education programs to enable students to develop skills and competencies in coding, problem-solving, critical thinking, creativity and collaboration.

(2) Purpose Awards made under this subsection shall support—

(A) research and development needed to bring computer science and computational thinking courses and degrees to Tribal Colleges or Universities;

(B) research and development of instructional materials needed to integrate computer science and computational thinking into programs that are culturally relevant to students attending Tribal Colleges or Universities;

(C) research, development and evaluation of distance education for computer science and computational thinking courses and degree programs for students attending Tribal Colleges and Universities; and

(D) other activities consistent with the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (b), as determined by the Director.

(3) Partnerships A Tribal College or University seeking an award under this subsection, or consortia thereof, may partner with an institution of higher education or nonprofit organization with demonstrated expertise in academic program development.

(4) Coordination In carrying out this subsection, the Director shall consult and cooperate with the programs and policies of other relevant Federal agencies to avoid duplication with and enhance the effectiveness of the program under this subsection.

(5) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director $2,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 to carry out this subsection.

*([Pub. L. 111–358, title V, § 525](/us/pl/111/358/tV/s525), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 4019](/us/stat/124/4019); [Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title V, § 10525(a)](/us/pl/117/167/dB/tV/s10525/a), Aug. 9, 2022, [136 Stat. 1625](/us/stat/136/1625).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Reauthorization Act of 2010, and also as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2010, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 117–167](/us/pl/117/167) added subsec. (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definitions

For definitions of terms used in this section, see [section 2 of Pub. L. 111–358](/us/pl/111/358/s2), set out as a note under [section 6621 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s6621), and [section 502 of Pub. L. 111–358](/us/pl/111/358/s502), set out as a note under [section 1862p of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1862p).
