---
title: "§ 654. Minimum service requirement for certain cyberspace occupational specialties"
identifier: "USC-T10-S654"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section654"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tV/s509/b), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 243](/us/stat/137/243).)"
---
# § 654. Minimum service requirement for certain cyberspace occupational specialties

##### § 654. Minimum service requirement for certain cyberspace occupational specialties

(a) Cyberspace Operations Officer.— The minimum service obligation for any member who successfully completes training in the armed forces in direct accession to the cyberspace operations officer occupational specialty of the Marine Corps shall be eight years.

(b) Service Obligation Defined.— In this section, the term “service obligation” means the period of active duty or, in the case of a member of a reserve component who completed cyberspace operations training in an active duty for training status as a member of a reserve component, the period of service in an active status in the Selected Reserve, required to be served after completion of cyberspace operations training.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title V, § 509(b)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tV/s509/b), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 243](/us/stat/137/243).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 654, added [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title V, § 571(a)(1)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tV/s571/a/1), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1670](/us/stat/107/1670), related to policy concerning homosexuality in the armed forces, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 111–321, § 2(f)(1)(A)](/us/pl/111/321/s2/f/1/A), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3516](/us/stat/124/3516).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal

[Pub. L. 111–321](/us/pl/111/321), Dec. 22, 2010, [124 Stat. 3515](/us/stat/124/3515), repealed former [section 654 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s654) effective 60 days after the later of the Secretary of Defense receiving a report, which was released Nov. 30, 2010, and the President transmitting to the congressional defense committees a written certification, which was transmitted July 22, 2011.
