---
title: "§ 1996b. Interethnic adoption"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1996b"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1996b"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–188, title I, § 1808(c)](/us/pl/104/188/tI/s1808/c), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/110/1904).)"
---
# § 1996b. Interethnic adoption

##### § 1996b. Interethnic adoption

(1) Prohibited conduct A person or government that is involved in adoption or foster care placements may not—

(A) deny to any individual the opportunity to become an adoptive or a foster parent, on the basis of the race, color, or national origin of the individual, or of the child, involved; or

(B) delay or deny the placement of a child for adoption or into foster care, on the basis of the race, color, or national origin of the adoptive or foster parent, or the child, involved.

(2) Enforcement Noncompliance with paragraph (1) is deemed a violation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [[42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.].

(3) No effect on the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 This subsection shall not be construed to affect the application of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 [[25 U.S.C. 1901](/us/usc/t25/s1901) et seq.].

*([Pub. L. 104–188, title I, § 1808(c)](/us/pl/104/188/tI/s1808/c), Aug. 20, 1996, [110 Stat. 1904](/us/stat/110/1904).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in par. (2), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

The Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, referred to in par. (3), is [Pub. L. 95–608](/us/pl/95/608), Nov. 8, 1978, [92 Stat. 3069](/us/stat/92/3069), which is classified principally to chapter 21 (§ 1901 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1901 of Title 25](/us/usc/t25/s1901) and Tables.
