---
title: "§ 622. Collocation among United States Postal Service properties"
identifier: "USC-T40-S622"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section622"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–318, § 3(a)](/us/pl/114/318/s3/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1609](/us/stat/130/1609).)"
---
# § 622. Collocation among United States Postal Service properties

##### § 622. Collocation among United States Postal Service properties

(a) Identification of Postal Property.— Each year, the Postmaster General shall—

(1) identify a list of postal properties with space available for use by Federal agencies; and

(2) not later than September 30, submit the list to—

(A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

(b) Voluntary Identification of Postal Property.— Each year, the Postmaster General may submit the list under subsection (a) to the Council.

(c) Submission of List of Postal Properties to Federal Agencies.—

(1) In general.— Not later than 30 days after the completion of a list under subsection (a), the Council shall provide the list to each Federal agency.

(2) Review by federal agencies.— Not later than 90 days after the receipt of the list submitted under paragraph (1), each Federal agency shall—

(A) review the list;

(B) review properties under the control of the Federal agency; and

(C) recommend collocations if appropriate.

(d) Terms of Collocation.— On approval of the recommendations under subsection (c) by the Postmaster General and the applicable agency head, the Federal agency or appropriate landholding entity may work with the Postmaster General to establish appropriate terms of a lease for each postal property.

(e) Rule of Construction.— Nothing in this section exceeds, modifies, or supplants any other Federal law relating to any competitive bidding process governing the leasing of postal property.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–318, § 3(a)](/us/pl/114/318/s3/a), Dec. 16, 2016, [130 Stat. 1609](/us/stat/130/1609).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2019. Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Accountability of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.
