---
title: "§ 8303. Declaration of policy of coordinated development and management"
identifier: "USC-T40-S8303"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title40-section8303"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "40"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1210](/us/stat/116/1210).)"
---
# § 8303. Declaration of policy of coordinated development and management

##### § 8303. Declaration of policy of coordinated development and management

The policy to be followed for the attainment of the objective established by [section 8302 of this title](/us/usc/t40/s8302), and for the more effective exercise by Congress, the executive branch of the Federal Government, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, and all other officers, agencies, and instrumentalities of the District of Columbia of their respective functions, powers, and duties in respect of the Washington metropolitan region, shall be that the functions, powers, and duties shall be exercised and carried out in a manner that (with proper recognition of the sovereignty of Maryland and Virginia in respect of those areas of the Washington metropolitan region that are located within their respective jurisdictions) will best facilitate the attainment of the coordinated development of the areas of the Washington metropolitan area and the coordinated management of their public affairs so as to contribute effectively to the solution of the community development problems of the Washington metropolitan region on a unified metropolitan basis.

*([Pub. L. 107–217](/us/pl/107/217), Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1210](/us/stat/116/1210).)*

The words “The Congress further declares that” are omitted as obsolete. The word “Mayor” is substituted for “Board of Commissioners” [subsequently changed to “Commissioner” because of section 401 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1967 (eff. Nov. 3, 1967, [81 Stat. 951](/us/stat/81/951))] because of section 421 of the District of Columbia Self–Government and Governmental Reorganization Act ([Public Law 93–198](/us/pl/93/198), [87 Stat. 789](/us/stat/87/789).)

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8303 | 40:132. | Pub. L. 86–527, § 3, June 27, 1960, 74 Stat. 223. |
