---
title: "§ 350. Inter-European Air Forces Academy"
identifier: "USC-T10-S350"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section350"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(k)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/k/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/130/2508); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, § 1205](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXII/s1205), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3912](/us/stat/134/3912).)"
---
# § 350. Inter-European Air Forces Academy

##### § 350. Inter-European Air Forces Academy

(a) Operation.— The Secretary of the Air Force may operate the Air Force education and training facility known as the Inter-European Air Forces Academy (in this section referred to as the “Academy”).

(b) Purpose.— The purpose of the Academy shall be to provide military education and training to military personnel of countries that are—

(1) members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;

(2) signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents; or

(3)

(A) within the United States Africa Command area of responsibility; and

(B) eligible for assistance under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ([22 U.S.C. 2347](/us/usc/t22/s2347) et seq.).

(c) Limitations.—

(1) Concurrence of secretary of state.— Military personnel of a country may be provided education and training under this section only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.

(2) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.— Education and training may not be provided under this section to the military personnel of any country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of law.

(d) Supplies and Clothing.— The Secretary of the Air Force may, under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, provide to a person receiving education and training under this section the following:

(1) Transportation incident to such education and training.

(2) Supplies and equipment to be used during such education and training.

(3) Billeting, food, and health services in connection with the receipt of such education and training.

(e) Living Allowance.— The Secretary of the Air Force may pay to a person receiving education and training under this section a living allowance at a rate to be prescribed by the Secretary, taking into account the rates of living allowances authorized for a member of the Armed Forces under similar circumstances.

(f) Funding.— Amounts for the operations and maintenance of the Academy, and for the provision of education and training through the Academy, may be paid from funds available for the Air Force for operation and maintenance.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(k)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/k/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2508](/us/stat/130/2508); amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, § 1205](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXII/s1205), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3912](/us/stat/134/3912).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(B), is [Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), Sept. 4, 1961, [75 Stat. 424](/us/stat/75/424). Chapter 5 of part II of the Act is classified generally to part V (§ 2347 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 32 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2151 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s2151) and Tables.

#### Codification

Text of section, as added by [Pub. L. 114–328](/us/pl/114/328), is based on text of subsecs. (a) to (f) of [section 1268 of Pub. L. 113–291](/us/pl/113/291/s1268), div. A, title XII, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3585](/us/stat/128/3585), which was formerly set out as a note under [section 9411 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s9411), prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1241(k)(2)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1241/k/2), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2509](/us/stat/130/2509).

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) substituted “that are—” for “that are members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents.” and added pars (1) to (3).
