---
title: "§ 650. Mississippi River below Rock Island; levee and bank protection"
identifier: "USC-T33-S650"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section650"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([July 27, 1916, ch. 260, § 1](/us/act/1916-07-27/ch260/s1), [39 Stat. 402](/us/stat/39/402); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)"
---
# § 650. Mississippi River below Rock Island; levee and bank protection

##### § 650. Mississippi River below Rock Island; levee and bank protection

Any funds which are appropriated by Congress for improving the Mississippi River between Head of Passes and the mouth of the Ohio River, and which may be allotted to levees, may be expended, under the direction of the Secretary of the Army, in accordance with the plans, specifications, and recommendations of the Mississippi River Commission, as approved by the Chief of Engineers, for levees upon any part of said river between Head of Passes and Rock Island, Illinois, in such manner as, in their opinion, shall best improve navigation and promote the interest of commerce at all stages of the river.

*([July 27, 1916, ch. 260, § 1](/us/act/1916-07-27/ch260/s1), [39 Stat. 402](/us/stat/39/402); [July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title II, § 205(a), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is from part of section 1 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1916.

#### Prior Provisions

This provision superseded [act June 4, 1906, ch. 2572](/us/act/1906-06-04/ch2572), [34 Stat. 208](/us/stat/34/208), which contained similar provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of [act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343/tII), [61 Stat. 501](/us/stat/61/501). Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of [act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 641](/us/stat/70A/641). Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
