---
title: "§ 7001. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7001"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7001"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 109–479, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/109/479/tVI/s602), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3644](/us/stat/120/3644).)"
---
# § 7001. Definitions

##### § 7001. Definitions

(1) Advisory panel The term “advisory panel” means the Advisory Panel on Pacific Hake/Whiting established by the Agreement.

(2) Agreement The term “Agreement” means the Agreement between the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada on Pacific Hake/Whiting, signed at Seattle, Washington, on November 21, 2003.

(3) Catch The term “catch” means all fishery removals from the offshore whiting resource, including landings, discards, and bycatch in other fisheries.

(4) Joint management committee The term “joint management committee” means the joint management committee established by the Agreement.

(5) Joint technical committee The term “joint technical committee” means the joint technical committee established by the Agreement.

(6) Offshore whiting resource The term “offshore whiting resource” means the transboundary stock of Merluccius productus that is located in the offshore waters of the United States and Canada except in Puget Sound and the Strait of Georgia.

(7) Scientific review group The term “scientific review group” means the scientific review group established by the Agreement.

(8) Secretary The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.

(9) United States Section The term “United States Section” means the United States representatives on the joint management committee.

*([Pub. L. 109–479, title VI, § 602](/us/pl/109/479/tVI/s602), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3644](/us/stat/120/3644).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 109–479, title VI, § 601](/us/pl/109/479/tVI/s601), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3644](/us/stat/120/3644), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Pacific Whiting Act of 2006’.”
