---
title: "§ 8808. Report on use of certain Iranian seaports by foreign vessels and use of foreign airports by sanctioned Iranian air carriers"
identifier: "USC-T22-S8808"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section8808"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, § 1252](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXII/s1252), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2017](/us/stat/126/2017).)"
---
# § 8808. Report on use of certain Iranian seaports by foreign vessels and use of foreign airports by sanctioned Iranian air carriers

##### § 8808. Report on use of certain Iranian seaports by foreign vessels and use of foreign airports by sanctioned Iranian air carriers

(a) In general Not later than 180 days after January 2, 2013, and annually thereafter through 2016, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains—

(1) a list of large or otherwise significant vessels that have entered seaports in Iran controlled by the Tidewater Middle East Company during the period specified in subsection (b) and the owners and operators of those vessels; and

(2) a list of all airports at which aircraft owned or controlled by an Iranian air carrier on which sanctions have been imposed by the United States have landed during the period specified in subsection (b).

(b) Period specified The period specified in this subsection is—

(1) in the case of the first report submitted under subsection (a), the 180-day period preceding the submission of the report; and

(2) in the case of any subsequent report submitted under that subsection, the year preceding the submission of the report.

(c) Form of report Each report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

*([Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, § 1252](/us/pl/112/239/dA/tXII/s1252), Jan. 2, 2013, [126 Stat. 2017](/us/stat/126/2017).)*

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of certain functions and authorities vested in the President by this section, see Memorandum of President of the United States, June 3, 2013, 78 F.R. 35545, set out as a note under [section 8801 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s8801).
