---
title: "§ 343. Conditions on commercial terrestrial operations"
identifier: "USC-T47-S343"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section343"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 343, as added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XVI, § 1698(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXVI/s1698/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2641](/us/stat/130/2641).)"
---
# § 343. Conditions on commercial terrestrial operations

##### § 343. Conditions on commercial terrestrial operations

(a) In general The Commission shall not permit commercial terrestrial operations in the 1525–1559 megahertz band or the 1626.5–1660.5 megahertz band until the date that is 90 days after the Commission resolves concerns of widespread harmful interference by such operations in such band to covered GPS devices.

(b) Notice to Congress

(1) In general At the conclusion of the decision regarding whether to permit such operations in such band, the Commission shall submit to the congressional committees described in paragraph (2) official copies of the documents containing the final decision of the Commission. If the decision is to permit such operations in such band, such documents shall contain or be accompanied by an explanation of how the concerns described in subsection (a) have been resolved.

(2) Congressional committees described The congressional committees described in this paragraph are the following:

(A) The Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(B) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

(c) Covered GPS device defined In this section, the term “covered GPS device” means a Global Positioning System device of the Department of Defense.

*([June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), title III, § 343, as added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XVI, § 1698(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXVI/s1698/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2641](/us/stat/130/2641).)*
