---
title: "§ 8679. Construction of vessels in foreign shipyards: prohibition"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8679"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8679"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, § 824(b)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tVIII/s824/b), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/107/1710), § 7309; renumbered § 8679, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)"
---
# § 8679. Construction of vessels in foreign shipyards: prohibition

##### § 8679. Construction of vessels in foreign shipyards: prohibition

(a) Prohibition.— Except as provided in subsection (b), no vessel to be constructed for any of the armed forces, and no major component of the hull or superstructure of any such vessel, may be constructed in a foreign shipyard.

(b) Presidential Waiver for National Security Interest.—

(1) The President may authorize exceptions to the prohibition in subsection (a) when the President determines that it is in the national security interest of the United States to do so.

(2) The President shall transmit notice to Congress of any such determination, and no contract may be made pursuant to the exception authorized until the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the notice of the determination is received by Congress.

(c) Exception for Inflatable Boats.— An inflatable boat or a rigid inflatable boat, as defined by the Secretary of the Navy, is not a vessel for the purpose of the restriction in subsection (a).

*(Added [Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, § 824(b)](/us/pl/103/160/dA/tVIII/s824/b), Nov. 30, 1993, [107 Stat. 1710](/us/stat/107/1710), § 7309; renumbered § 8679, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 807(d)(2)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s807/d/2), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 7309 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s7309) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Authority

For delegation of authority of President under subsec. (b) of this section, see section 3 of Ex. Ord. No. 12765, June 11, 1991, 56 F.R. 27401, set out as a note under [section 113 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s113).
