---
title: "§ 3119. Rehabilitation research and special projects"
identifier: "USC-T38-S3119"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section3119"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 96–466, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/96/466/tI/s101/a), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/94/2184), § 1519; amended [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3119, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)"
---
# § 3119. Rehabilitation research and special projects

##### § 3119. Rehabilitation research and special projects

(a) The Secretary shall carry out an ongoing program of activities for the purpose of advancing the knowledge, methods, techniques, and resources available for use in rehabilitation programs for veterans. For this purpose, the Secretary shall conduct and provide support for the development or conduct, or both the development and conduct, of—

(1) studies and research concerning the psychological, educational, employment, social, vocational, industrial, and economic aspects of the rehabilitation of disabled veterans, including new methods of rehabilitation; and

(2) projects which are designed to increase the resources and potential for accomplishing the rehabilitation of disabled veterans.

(b) For the purpose specified in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary is authorized to make grants to or contract with public or nonprofit agencies, including institutions of higher learning.

(c) The Secretary shall cooperate with the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration and the Director of the Institute of Handicapped Research in the Department of Education, the Assistant Secretary for Veterans’ Employment in the Department of Labor, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding rehabilitation studies, research, and special projects of mutual programmatic concern.

*(Added [Pub. L. 96–466, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/96/466/tI/s101/a), Oct. 17, 1980, [94 Stat. 2184](/us/stat/94/2184), § 1519; amended [Pub. L. 101–237, title IV, § 423(b)(1)(A)](/us/pl/101/237/tIV/s423/b/1/A), Dec. 18, 1989, [103 Stat. 2092](/us/stat/103/2092); renumbered § 3119, [Pub. L. 102–83, § 5(a)](/us/pl/102/83/s5/a), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 406](/us/stat/105/406).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–83](/us/pl/102/83) renumbered [section 1519 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s1519) as this section.

1989—[Pub. L. 101–237](/us/pl/101/237) substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1980, see [section 802(a)(2) of Pub. L. 96–466](/us/pl/96/466/s802/a/2), set out as a note under [section 3100 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s3100).
