---
title: "§ 129. Office rent and clerk hire for consolidated land offices"
identifier: "USC-T43-S129"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title43-section129"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "43"
source_credit: "(R.S. § 2255; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)"
---
# § 129. Office rent and clerk hire for consolidated land offices

##### § 129. Office rent and clerk hire for consolidated land offices

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make a reasonable allowance for office rent for each consolidated land office; and when satisfied of the necessity therefor, to approve the employment of one or more clerks, at a reasonable per diem compensation, for such time as such clerical force is absolutely required to keep up the current public business, which clerical force shall be paid out of the surplus fees authorized to be charged by section 84 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, if any, and if no surplus exists, then out of the appropriation for incidental expenses of district land offices; but no clerk shall be so paid unless his employment has been first sanctioned by the Secretary of the Interior.

*(R.S. § 2255; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, § 403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, [60 Stat. 1100](/us/stat/60/1100).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 84 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s84), referred to in text, was repealed by [Pub. L. 86–649, title II, § 202(b)](/us/pl/86/649/tII/s202/b), July 14, 1960, [74 Stat. 507](/us/stat/74/507). See [section 1734 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1734).

#### Codification

R.S. § 2255 derived from [act Feb. 18, 1861, ch. 38, § 2](/us/act/1861-02-18/ch38/s2), [12 Stat. 131](/us/stat/12/131).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, [64 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/64/1262), set out under [section 1451 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1451).

Words “by the register” following “to approve the employment” omitted on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under [section 1 of this title](/us/usc/t43/s1).
