---
title: "§ 8327. Officers and enlisted members of the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve: 30 years; 20 years; retired pay"
identifier: "USC-T10-S8327"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section8327"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 395](/us/stat/70A/395), § 6327; [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1(1)](/us/pl/85/583/s1/1), Aug. 1, 1958, [72 Stat. 480](/us/stat/72/480); [Pub. L. 88–132, § 5(h)(5)](/us/pl/88/132/s5/h/5), Oct. 2, 1963, [77 Stat. 214](/us/stat/77/214); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(1)(I)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/1/I), (3)(B), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3233](/us/stat/119/3233), 3234; renumbered § 8327 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title"
---
# § 8327. Officers and enlisted members of the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve: 30 years; 20 years; retired pay

##### § 8327. Officers and enlisted members of the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve: 30 years; 20 years; retired pay

(a) A member of the Navy Reserve or the Marine Corps Reserve may be transferred to the Retired Reserve upon his request if he has completed—

(1) at least 30 years of active service in the armed forces, other than active duty for training; or

(2) at least 20 years of active service in the armed forces other than active duty for training, the last 10 of which he served in the 11-year period immediately preceding his transfer to the Retired Reserve.

(b) Each member who is transferred to the Retired Reserve under subsection (a) is entitled, when not on active duty, to retired pay at the rate of 50 percent of the basic pay of the grade in which retired.

(c) This section applies only to persons who were members of the Navy Reserve or the Marine Corps Reserve on January 1, 1953.

(d) This section terminates on January 1, 1973. However, its termination will not affect any accrued rights to retired pay.

(e) A member who is eligible for retirement under this section, and who is also eligible for retirement under another provision or for transfer to the Fleet Reserve or the Fleet Marine Corps Reserve under [section 8330 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8330), is entitled to elect which of these benefits he is to receive.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 395](/us/stat/70A/395), § 6327; [Pub. L. 85–583, § 1(1)](/us/pl/85/583/s1/1), Aug. 1, 1958, [72 Stat. 480](/us/stat/72/480); [Pub. L. 88–132, § 5(h)(5)](/us/pl/88/132/s5/h/5), Oct. 2, 1963, [77 Stat. 214](/us/stat/77/214); [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(b)(1)(I)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tV/s515/b/1/I), (3)(B), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3233](/us/stat/119/3233), 3234; renumbered § 8327 and amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII), §§ 807(b)(15), 809(a), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1836](/us/stat/132/1836), 1840.)*

In subsection (a) the word “Federal” is omitted and the words “in the armed forces, other than active duty for training” are inserted. The words “active Federal service” are not defined in [50 U.S.C. 1052](/us/usc/t50/s1052). Section 310 of the Naval Reserve Act of 1938, which [50 U.S.C. 1052](/us/usc/t50/s1052) replaced, specifies active service in the “Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Naval Auxiliary Service, Naval Reserve Force, Naval Militia in Federal status, National Naval Volunteers, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve Force, and Marine Corps Reserve.” [50 U.S.C. 1052](/us/usc/t50/s1052) was intended to preserve the rights of persons who, on January 1, 1953, were members of reserve components, so that they would not be prejudiced by the repeal of § 310 of the Naval Reserve Act of 1938 (U.S. Code Congressional and Administrative News, 1952, p. 3584). To effect that purpose, the service that was creditable under the 1938 Act must be creditable under [50 U.S.C. 1052](/us/usc/t50/s1052). The words “active service in the armed forces, other than active duty for training” cover all creditable service. The Judge Advocate General of the Navy, in an opinion dated August 27, 1954 (JAG II:2:WGA:CA:mk), held that active duty for training was not creditable under the 1938 Act and is, therefore, not creditable under the 1952 Act.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6327 | 50 U.S.C. 1052(a), (b), (d), (e), (f). | July 9, 1952, ch. 608, § 413(a), (b), (d), (e), (f), 66 Stat. 499. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232, § 807(b)(15)](/us/pl/115/232/s807/b/15), renumbered [section 6327 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s6327) as this section.

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 115–232, § 809(a)](/us/pl/115/232/s809/a), substituted “section 8330” for “section 6330”.

2006—[Pub. L. 109–163, § 515(b)(3)(B)](/us/pl/109/163/s515/b/3/B), substituted “Navy Reserve” for “Naval Reserve” in section catchline.

Subsecs. (a), (c). [Pub. L. 109–163, § 515(b)(1)(I)](/us/pl/109/163/s515/b/1/I), substituted “Navy Reserve” for “Naval Reserve”.

1963—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 88–132](/us/pl/88/132) substituted “of the grade in which retired” for “to which he would be entitled if on active duty” after “50 percent of the basic pay”.

1958—Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 85–583](/us/pl/85/583) entitled eligible members of Naval Reserve or Marine Corps Reserve to elect to transfer to Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### Effective Date of 1963 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 88–132](/us/pl/88/132) effective Oct. 1, 1963, see [section 14 of Pub. L. 88–132](/us/pl/88/132/s14), set out as a note under [section 201 of Title 37](/us/usc/t37/s201), Pay and Allowances of the Uniformed Services.
