---
title: "§ 47123. Nondiscrimination"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47123"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47123"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/108/1275); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 153](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s153), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3216](/us/stat/132/3216).)"
---
# § 47123. Nondiscrimination

##### § 47123. Nondiscrimination

(a) In General.— The Secretary of Transportation shall take affirmative action to ensure that an individual is not excluded because of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex from participating in an activity carried out with money received under a grant under this subchapter. The Secretary shall prescribe regulations necessary to carry out this section. The regulations shall be similar to those in effect under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000d](/us/usc/t42/s2000d) et seq.). This section is in addition to title VI of the Act.

(b) Indian Employment.—

(1) Tribal sponsor preference.— Consistent with section 703(i) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ([42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(i)](/us/usc/t42/s2000e–2/i)), nothing in this section shall preclude the preferential employment of Indians living on or near a reservation on a project or contract at—

(A) an airport sponsored by an Indian tribal government; or

(B) an airport located on an Indian reservation.

(2) State preference.— A State may implement a preference for employment of Indians on a project carried out under this subchapter near an Indian reservation.

(3) Implementation.— The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribal governments and cooperate with the States to implement this subsection.

(4) Indian tribal government defined.— In this section, the term “Indian tribal government” has the same meaning given that term in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 5122](/us/usc/t42/s5122)).

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1275](/us/stat/108/1275); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 153](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s153), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3216](/us/stat/132/3216).)*

The words “as the Secretary deems” and “the purposes of” are omitted as surplus. The words “The regulations shall be similar to those in effect under” are substituted for “and may enforce this section, and any rules promulgated under this section, through agency and department provisions and rules which shall be similar to those established and in effect under” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words and because “rules” and “regulations” are synonymous. The words “The provisions of . . . and not in lieu of the provisions of” are omitted as surplus. The word “is” is substituted for “shall be considered to be” to eliminate unnecessary words.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 47123 | 49 App.:2219. | Sept. 3, 1982, Pub. L. 97–248, § 520, 96 Stat. 694. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (a), is [Pub. L. 88–352](/us/pl/88/352), July 2, 1964, [78 Stat. 241](/us/stat/78/241). Title VI of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of chapter 21 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2000a of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s2000a) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).
