---
title: "§ 3361. National Virtual Translation Center"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3361"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3361"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 313](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s313), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2391](/us/stat/116/2391); [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(g)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/g/2/A/i), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/118/3691); [Pub. L. 108–487, title III, § 304](/us/pl/108/487/tIII/s304), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3944](/us/stat/118/3944); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title IX, § 7901(f)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIX/s7901/f/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/137/1107).)"
---
# § 3361. National Virtual Translation Center

##### § 3361. National Virtual Translation Center

(a) Establishment The Director of National Intelligence shall establish in the intelligence community an element with the function of connecting the elements of the intelligence community engaged in the acquisition, storage, translation, or analysis of voice or data in digital form.

(b) Designation The element established under subsection (a) shall be known as the National Virtual Translation Center.

(c) Function The element established under subsection (a) shall provide for timely and accurate translations of foreign intelligence for all elements of the intelligence community through—

(1) the integration of the translation capabilities of the intelligence community;

(2) the use of remote-connection capabilities; and

(3) the use of such other capabilities as the Director considers appropriate.

(d) Administrative matters

(1) The Director shall retain direct supervision and control over the element established under subsection (a).

(2) The element established under subsection (a) shall connect elements of the intelligence community utilizing the most current available information technology that is applicable to the function of the element.

(3) Personnel of the element established under subsection (a) may carry out the duties and functions of the element at any location that—

(A) has been certified as a secure facility by a department or agency of the United States Government; or

(B) the Director has otherwise determined to be appropriate for such duties and functions.

(e) Deadline for establishment The element required by subsection (a) shall be established as soon as practicable after November 27, 2002, but not later than 90 days after November 27, 2002.

*([Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 313](/us/pl/107/306/tIII/s313), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2391](/us/stat/116/2391); [Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1071(g)(2)(A)(i)](/us/pl/108/458/tI/s1071/g/2/A/i), Dec. 17, 2004, [118 Stat. 3691](/us/stat/118/3691); [Pub. L. 108–487, title III, § 304](/us/pl/108/487/tIII/s304), Dec. 23, 2004, [118 Stat. 3944](/us/stat/118/3944); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title IX, § 7901(f)(1)](/us/pl/118/31/dG/tIX/s7901/f/1), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 1107](/us/stat/137/1107).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 404n of this title](/us/usc/t50/s404n) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (d)(3)(B). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) inserted period at end.

2004—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence, acting as the head of the intelligence community,”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 108–487, § 304(a)(2)](/us/pl/108/487/s304/a/2), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).

Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 108–487, § 304(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/487/s304/a/1), (b), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d) and added par. (3). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).

Subsec. (e). [Pub. L. 108–487, § 304(a)(1)](/us/pl/108/487/s304/a/1), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2004 Amendment

For Determination by President that amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458) effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see [section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458](/us/pl/108/458/s1097/a), set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3001).
