---
title: "§ 4901. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T15-S4901"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section4901"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5401](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5401), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1463](/us/stat/102/1463).)"
---
# § 4901. Definitions

##### § 4901. Definitions

(1) the term “Committee” means the Interagency Trade Data Advisory Committee;

(2) the term “Data Bank” means the National Trade Data Bank;

(3) the term “Executive agency” has the same meaning as in [section 105 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s105);

(4) the term “export promotion data system” means the data system known as the Commercial Information Management System which is maintained and operated by the United States and Foreign Commercial Service and is established as part of the Data Bank under section 4906 11 See References in Text note below. of this title;

(5) the term “international economic data system” means the data system established as part of the Data Bank under [section 4906 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4906) which contains data useful to policymakers and analysis concerned with international economics; and

(6) the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.

*([Pub. L. 100–418, title V, § 5401](/us/pl/100/418/tV/s5401), Aug. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 1463](/us/stat/102/1463).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle E (§§ 5401 to 5413, 5421 to 5423) of title V of [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) which, in addition to enacting this chapter, enacted [section 4603a of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4603a) and [section 194b of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s194b), The Congress. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Tables.

[Section 4906 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s4906), referred to in par. (4), was in the original “section 3816”, meaning [section 3816 of Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418/s3816), and was translated as if it read [section 5406 of Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418/s5406), to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because section 3816 was the provision which established the Data Bank in a predecessor version of H.R. 4848 (which became [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418)), [Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418) does not contain a section 3816, and [section 5406 of Pub. L. 100–418](/us/pl/100/418/s5406) is the provision establishing the Data Bank.
