---
title: "§ 7501. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S7501"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section7501"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIX/s902), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/129/3031).)"
---
# § 7501. Definitions

##### § 7501. Definitions

(1) Coastal county The term “coastal county” has the meaning given the term by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the document entitled “NOAA’s List of Coastal Counties for the Bureau of the Census” (or similar successor document).

(2) Coastal State The term “coastal State” has the meaning given the term “coastal state” in [section 1453 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s1453).

(3) Foundation The term “Foundation” means the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation established by [section 3701(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s3701/a).

(4) Fund The term “Fund” means the National Oceans and Coastal Security Fund established under [section 7503(a) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s7503/a).

(5) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” means any federally recognized Indian tribe.

(6) Administrator Except as otherwise specifically provided, the term “Administrator” means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(7) Tidal shoreline The term “tidal shoreline” has the meaning given that term pursuant to section 923.110(c)(2)(i) of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, or a similar successor regulation.

*([Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title IX, § 902](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIX/s902), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/129/3031).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 114–113, div. O, title IX, § 901](/us/pl/114/113/dO/tIX/s901), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 3031](/us/stat/129/3031), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘National Oceans and Coastal Security Act’.”
