---
title: "§ 3215. Lending or permitting use of frank unlawful"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3215"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3215"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 754](/us/stat/84/754); [Pub. L. 93–191, § 10](/us/pl/93/191/s10), Dec. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 746](/us/stat/87/746).)"
---
# § 3215. Lending or permitting use of frank unlawful

##### § 3215. Lending or permitting use of frank unlawful

A person entitled to use a frank may not lend it or permit its use by any committee, organization, or association, or permit its use by any person for the benefit or use of any committee, organization, or association. This section does not apply to any standing, select, special, or joint committee, or subcommittee thereof, or commission, of the Senate, House of Representatives, or Congress, composed of Members of Congress, or to the Democratic caucus or the Republican conference of the House of Representatives or of the Senate.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 754](/us/stat/84/754); [Pub. L. 93–191, § 10](/us/pl/93/191/s10), Dec. 18, 1973, [87 Stat. 746](/us/stat/87/746).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1973—[Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191) substituted provision for nonapplication of section to “any standing, select, special, or joint committee, or subcommittee thereof, or commission, of the Senate, House of Representatives, or Congress, composed of Members of Congress, or to the Democratic caucus or the Republican conference of the House of Representatives or of the Senate” for such nonapplication to “any committee composed of Members of Congress”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1973 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191) effective Dec. 18, 1973, see [section 14 of Pub. L. 93–191](/us/pl/93/191/s14), set out as a note under [section 3210 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s3210).

#### Effective Date

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).
