---
title: "§ 1492. Authority to provide travel and transportation allowances in connection with transfer ceremonies of certain civilian employees who die overseas"
identifier: "USC-T10-S1492"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section1492"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XI, § 1104(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXI/s1104/a/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3889](/us/stat/134/3889).)"
---
# § 1492. Authority to provide travel and transportation allowances in connection with transfer ceremonies of certain civilian employees who die overseas

##### § 1492. Authority to provide travel and transportation allowances in connection with transfer ceremonies of certain civilian employees who die overseas

(a) Authority.— A covered official may treat a covered relative of a covered employee under the jurisdiction of that covered official in the same manner the Secretary of a military department treats, under section 481f(d) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 37, next of kin and family members of a member of the armed forces who dies while located or serving overseas.

(b) Definitions.— In this section:

(1) The term “covered employee” means a civilian employee—

(A) under the jurisdiction of a covered official; and

(B) who dies while located or serving overseas.

(2) The term “covered official” means—

(A) the Secretary of the military department concerned; and

(B) the head of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field Activity.

(3) The term “covered relative” means—

(A) the primary next of kin of the covered employee;

(B) two family members (other than primary next of kin) of the covered employee; and

(C) one or more additional family members of the covered employee, at the discretion of the Secretary a sibling of the covered employee.

*(Added [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XI, § 1104(a)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXI/s1104/a/1), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 3889](/us/stat/134/3889).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 481f of title 37](/us/usc/t37/s481f), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title VI, § 604(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tVI/s604/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1767](/us/stat/135/1767).
