---
title: "§ 4337. Transfer of funds by Chairman of Senate Committee on Appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T2-S4337"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title2-section4337"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "2"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–275, title I, § 11](/us/pl/105/275/tI/s11), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2435](/us/stat/112/2435).)"
---
# § 4337. Transfer of funds by Chairman of Senate Committee on Appropriations

##### § 4337. Transfer of funds by Chairman of Senate Committee on Appropriations

(a) In general

(1) The Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her election transfer funds from the appropriation account for salaries for the Appropriations Committee of the Senate, to the account, within the contingent fund of the Senate, from which expenses are payable for such committee.

(2) The Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her election transfer funds from the appropriation account for expenses, within the contingent fund of the Senate, for the Appropriations Committee of the Senate, to the account from which salaries are payable for such committee.

(b) Availability of funds; times of transfer Any funds transferred under this section shall be—

(1) available for expenditure by such committee in like manner and for the same purposes as are other moneys which are available for expenditure by such committee from the account to which the funds were transferred; and

(2) made at such time or times as the Chairman shall specify in writing to the Senate Disbursing Office.

(c) Effective date This section shall take effect on October 1, 1998, and shall be effective with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after that date.

*([Pub. L. 105–275, title I, § 11](/us/pl/105/275/tI/s11), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2435](/us/stat/112/2435).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 72d–1 of this title](/us/usc/t2/s72d–1) prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1999, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999.
