---
title: "§ 290cc–23. Requirement of matching funds"
identifier: "USC-T42-S290cc–23"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section290cc–23"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 523, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 517](/us/stat/101/517); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4728](/us/stat/104/4728).)"
---
# § 290cc–23. Requirement of matching funds

##### § 290cc–23. Requirement of matching funds

(a) In general The Secretary may not make payments under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) unless, with respect to the costs of providing services pursuant to [section 290cc–22 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–22), the State involved agrees to make available, directly or through donations from public or private entities, non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is not less than $1 for each $3 of Federal funds provided in such payments.

(b) Determination of amount Non-Federal contributions required in subsection (a) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, shall not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.

(c) Limitation regarding grants by States The Secretary may not make payments under [section 290cc–21 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–21) unless the State involved agrees that the State will not require the entities to which grants are provided pursuant to [section 290cc–22(a) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290cc–22/a) to provide non-Federal contributions in excess of the non-Federal contributions described in subsection (a).

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title V, § 523, as added [Pub. L. 100–77, title VI, § 611(3)](/us/pl/100/77/tVI/s611/3), July 22, 1987, [101 Stat. 517](/us/stat/101/517); amended [Pub. L. 101–645, title V, § 511](/us/pl/101/645/tV/s511), Nov. 29, 1990, [104 Stat. 4728](/us/stat/104/4728).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 523 of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 544 by [section 611(2) of Pub. L. 100–77](/us/pl/100/77/s611/2) and is classified to [section 290dd–3 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s290dd–3).

#### Amendments

1990—[Pub. L. 101–645](/us/pl/101/645) amended section generally, substituting present provisions for provisions which related to: in subsec. (a), general requirements; and in subsec. (b), determination of amount of non-Federal contribution.
