---
title: "§ 420. Control and direction of plates and dies; expense of issue and retirement of notes paid by banks"
identifier: "USC-T12-S420"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section420"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 16](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s16) (par.), [38 Stat. 267](/us/stat/38/267); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(5)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/5), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2293](/us/stat/108/2293).)"
---
# § 420. Control and direction of plates and dies; expense of issue and retirement of notes paid by banks

##### § 420. Control and direction of plates and dies; expense of issue and retirement of notes paid by banks

The plates and dies to be procured by the Secretary of the Treasury for the printing of such circulating notes shall remain under his control and direction, and the expenses necessarily incurred in executing the laws relating to the procuring of such notes, and all other expenses incidental to their issue and retirement, shall be paid by the Federal reserve banks, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall include in its estimate of expenses levied against the Federal reserve banks a sufficient amount to cover the expenses herein provided for.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 16](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s16) (par.), [38 Stat. 267](/us/stat/38/267); [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(g)(5)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/g/5), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2293](/us/stat/108/2293).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Phrase “herein provided for”, referred to in text, probably means as provided for in section 16 of act Dec. 23, 1913. For classification to this title of section 16, see Codification note set out under [section 411 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s411).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of the ninth par. (formerly the tenth par.) of section 16 of act Dec. 23, 1913. For classification to this title of other pars. of section 16, see Codification note set out under [section 411 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s411).

#### Amendments

1994—[Pub. L. 103–325](/us/pl/103/325), which directed amendment of “[t]he 10th undesignated paragraph of section 16 of the Federal Reserve Act ([12 U.S.C. 420](/us/usc/t12/s420))” by substituting “Secretary of the Treasury” for “Comptroller of the Currency” and “Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System” for “Federal Reserve Board”, was executed by making the substitutions in this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
