---
title: "§ 1322. Board action"
identifier: "USC-T49-S1322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section1322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tII/s201/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 936](/us/stat/109/936), § 722; renumbered § 1322, [Pub. L. 114–110, § 3(a)(5)](/us/pl/114/110/s3/a/5), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/129/2228).)"
---
# § 1322. Board action

##### § 1322. Board action

(a) Effective Date of Actions.— Unless otherwise provided in subtitle IV, the Board may determine, within a reasonable time, when its actions, other than an action ordering the payment of money, take effect.

(b) Terminating and Changing Actions.— An action of the Board remains in effect under its own terms or until superseded. The Board may change, suspend, or set aside any such action on notice. Notice may be given in a manner determined by the Board. A court of competent jurisdiction may suspend or set aside any such action.

(c) Reconsidering Actions.— The Board may, at any time on its own initiative because of material error, new evidence, or substantially changed circumstances—

An interested party may petition to reopen and reconsider an action of the Board under this subsection under regulations of the Board.

(1) reopen a proceeding;

(2) grant rehearing, reargument, or reconsideration of an action of the Board; or

(3) change an action of the Board.

(d) Finality of Actions.— Notwithstanding subtitle IV, an action of the Board under this section is final on the date on which it is served, and a civil action to enforce, enjoin, suspend, or set aside the action may be filed after that date.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–88, title II, § 201(a)](/us/pl/104/88/tII/s201/a), Dec. 29, 1995, [109 Stat. 936](/us/stat/109/936), § 722; renumbered § 1322, [Pub. L. 114–110, § 3(a)(5)](/us/pl/114/110/s3/a/5), Dec. 18, 2015, [129 Stat. 2228](/us/stat/129/2228).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–110](/us/pl/114/110) renumbered [section 722 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s722) as this section.
