---
title: "§ 611. Allowance of deduction for depletion"
identifier: "USC-T26-S611"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-01-12"
last_updated: "2026-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title26-section611"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "26"
source_credit: "([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 207](/us/stat/68A/207); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 35](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s35), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/72/1632); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)"
---
# § 611. Allowance of deduction for depletion

##### § 611. Allowance of deduction for depletion

(a) General rule In the case of mines, oil and gas wells, other natural deposits, and timber, there shall be allowed as a deduction in computing taxable income a reasonable allowance for depletion and for depreciation of improvements, according to the peculiar conditions in each case; such reasonable allowance in all cases to be made under regulations prescribed by the Secretary. For purposes of this part, the term “mines” includes deposits of waste or residue, the extraction of ores or minerals from which is treated as mining under section 613(c). In any case in which it is ascertained as a result of operations or of development work that the recoverable units are greater or less than the prior estimate thereof, then such prior estimate (but not the basis for depletion) shall be revised and the allowance under this section for subsequent taxable years shall be based on such revised estimate.

(b) Special rules

(1) Leases In the case of a lease, the deduction under this section shall be equitably apportioned between the lessor and lessee.

(2) Life tenant and remainderman In the case of property held by one person for life with remainder to another person, the deduction under this section shall be computed as if the life tenant were the absolute owner of the property and shall be allowed to the life tenant.

(3) Property held in trust In the case of property held in trust, the deduction under this section shall be apportioned between the income beneficiaries and the trustee in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the instrument creating the trust, or, in the absence of such provisions, on the basis of the trust income allocable to each.

(4) Property held by estate In the case of an estate, the deduction under this section shall be apportioned between the estate and the heirs, legatees, and devisees on the basis of the income of the estate allocable to each.

(c) Cross reference For other rules applicable to depreciation of improvements, see section 167.

*([Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736](/us/act/1954-08-16/ch736), [68A Stat. 207](/us/stat/68A/207); [Pub. L. 85–866, title I, § 35](/us/pl/85/866/tI/s35), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1632](/us/stat/72/1632); [Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1906(b)(13)(A)](/us/pl/94/455/tXIX/s1906/b/13/A), Oct. 4, 1976, [90 Stat. 1834](/us/stat/90/1834).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–455](/us/pl/94/455) struck out “or his delegate” after “Secretary”.

1958—Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866) substituted “devisees” for “devises”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1958 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866) applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1953, and ending after Aug. 16, 1954, see [section 1(c)(1) of Pub. L. 85–866](/us/pl/85/866/s1/c/1), set out as a note under [section 165 of this title](/us/usc/t26/s165).
