---
title: "§ 12810. Cost-saving building technologies and construction techniques"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12810"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12810"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 260](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s260), as added [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 216](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s216), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3760](/us/stat/106/3760).)"
---
# § 12810. Cost-saving building technologies and construction techniques

##### § 12810. Cost-saving building technologies and construction techniques

(a) In general The Secretary shall make available a model program to utilize cost-saving building technologies and construction techniques for purposes of providing homeownership and rental opportunities under this subchapter.

(b) Selection criteria The Secretary shall establish criteria for participating jurisdictions to select projects for assistance under the model program which may include—

(1) the extent to which innovative, cost-saving building and construction technologies are utilized;

(2) the extent to which innovative, cost-saving construction techniques are utilized;

(3) the extent to which units will be made available to low-income families and individuals;

(4) the extent to which non-Federal public or private assistance is utilized; and

(5) any other factor, determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.

(c) Guidelines The Secretary shall publish guidelines for the model program under this section not later than 180 days after October 28, 1992.

(d) Report The Secretary shall submit a biennial report to the Congress on the utilization of the model program under this section.

*([Pub. L. 101–625, title II, § 260](/us/pl/101/625/tII/s260), as added [Pub. L. 102–550, title II, § 216](/us/pl/102/550/tII/s216), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 3760](/us/stat/106/3760).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section applicable to unexpended funds allocated under subchapter II of this chapter in fiscal year 1992, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 223 of Pub. L. 102–550](/us/pl/102/550/s223), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 12704 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12704).
