---
title: "§ 285b–1. Heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood disease prevention and control programs"
identifier: "USC-T42-S285b–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section285b–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 419, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 836](/us/stat/99/836); amended [Pub. L. 103–43, title V, § 505](/us/pl/103/43/tV/s505), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 160](/us/stat/107/160).)"
---
# § 285b–1. Heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood disease prevention and control programs

##### § 285b–1. Heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood disease prevention and control programs

(a) The Director of the Institute shall conduct and support programs for the prevention and control of heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases. Such programs shall include community-based and population-based programs carried out in cooperation with other Federal agencies, with public health agencies of State or local governments, with nonprofit private entities that are community-based health agencies, or with other appropriate public or nonprofit private entities.

(b) In carrying out programs under subsection (a), the Director of the Institute shall give special consideration to the prevention and control of heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases in children, and in populations that are at increased risk with respect to such diseases.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title IV, § 419, as added [Pub. L. 99–158, § 2](/us/pl/99/158/s2), Nov. 20, 1985, [99 Stat. 836](/us/stat/99/836); amended [Pub. L. 103–43, title V, § 505](/us/pl/103/43/tV/s505), June 10, 1993, [107 Stat. 160](/us/stat/107/160).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1993—[Pub. L. 103–43](/us/pl/103/43) substituted subsecs. (a) and (b) for former section which read as follows: “The Director of the Institute, under policies established by the Director of NIH and after consultation with the advisory council for the Institute, shall establish programs as necessary for cooperation with other Federal health agencies, State, local, and regional public health agencies, and nonprofit private health agencies in the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment (including the provision of emergency medical services) of heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases, appropriately emphasizing the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of such diseases of children.”
