---
title: "§ 6322. Prohibition and report 11 So in original. Requirement to submit report was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) without corresponding amendment to section catchline. on bonuses to contractors operating defense nuclear facilities"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6322"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6322"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/139/1441).)"
---
# § 6322. Prohibition and report 11 So in original. Requirement to submit report was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) without corresponding amendment to section catchline. on bonuses to contractors operating defense nuclear facilities

##### § 6322. Prohibition and report 11 So in original. Requirement to submit report was repealed by [Pub. L. 112–239](/us/pl/112/239) without corresponding amendment to section catchline. on bonuses to contractors operating defense nuclear facilities

(a) Prohibition.— The Secretary of Energy may not provide any bonuses, award fees, or other form of performance- or production-based awards to a contractor operating a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility unless, in evaluating the performance or production under the contract, the Secretary considers the contractor’s compliance with all applicable environmental, safety, and health statutes, regulations, and practices for determining both the size of, and the contractor’s qualification for, such bonus, award fee, or other award. The prohibition in this subsection applies with respect to contracts entered into, or contract options exercised, after November 29, 1989.

(b) Regulations.— The Secretary of Energy shall promulgate regulations to implement subsection (a) not later than March 1, 1990.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1441](/us/stat/139/1441).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6322 was renumbered [section 8322 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8322).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2782 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2782), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
