---
title: "§ 7410. Grant eligibility requirements and compliance with immigration laws"
identifier: "USC-T15-S7410"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section7410"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–305, § 16](/us/pl/107/305/s16), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2381](/us/stat/116/2381).)"
---
# § 7410. Grant eligibility requirements and compliance with immigration laws

##### § 7410. Grant eligibility requirements and compliance with immigration laws

(a) Immigration status No grant or fellowship may be awarded under this chapter, directly or indirectly, to any individual who is in violation of the terms of his or her status as a nonimmigrant under section 1101(a)(15)(F), (M), or (J) of title 8.

(b) Aliens from certain countries No grant or fellowship may be awarded under this chapter, directly or indirectly, to any alien from a country that is a state sponsor of international terrorism, as defined under [section 1735(b) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1735/b), unless the Secretary of State determines, in consultation with the Attorney General and the heads of other appropriate agencies, that such alien does not pose a threat to the safety or national security of the United States.

(c) Non-complying institutions No grant or fellowship may be awarded under this chapter, directly or indirectly, to any institution of higher education or non-profit institution (or consortia thereof) that has—

(1) materially failed to comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements to receive nonimmigrant students or exchange visitor program participants under section 1101(a)(15)(F), (M), or (J) of title 8, or [section 1372 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1372), as required by [section 1762 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1762); or

(2) been suspended or terminated pursuant to [section 1762(c) of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1762/c).

*([Pub. L. 107–305, § 16](/us/pl/107/305/s16), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2381](/us/stat/116/2381).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–305](/us/pl/107/305), Nov. 27, 2002, [116 Stat. 2367](/us/stat/116/2367), known as the Cyber Security Research and Development Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7401 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s7401) and Tables.
