---
title: "§ 300j–18a. Annual study on boil water advisories"
identifier: "USC-T42-S300j–18a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section300j–18a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, title I, § 50115](/us/pl/117/58/dE/tI/s50115), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1157](/us/stat/135/1157).)"
---
# § 300j–18a. Annual study on boil water advisories

##### § 300j–18a. Annual study on boil water advisories

(a) In general Not later than 1 year after November 15, 2021, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall conduct a study on the prevalence of boil water advisories issued in the United States.

(b) Report

(1) In general The Administrator shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the most recent study conducted under subsection (a) as part of the annual budget request transmitted to Congress under [section 1105(a) of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105/a).

(2) Requirement In the annual report required under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall include a description of the reasons for which boil water advisories were issued during the year covered by the report.

*([Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, title I, § 50115](/us/pl/117/58/dE/tI/s50115), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1157](/us/stat/135/1157).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section enacted as part of the Drinking Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Act of 2021 and also as part of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of Administrator

[Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, § 50002](/us/pl/117/58/dE/s50002), Nov. 15, 2021, [135 Stat. 1135](/us/stat/135/1135), provided that: “In this division [see Short Title of 2021 Amendment note set out under [section 1251 of Title 33](/us/usc/t33/s1251), Navigation and Navigable Waters], the term ‘Administrator’ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.”
