---
title: "§ 10651a. Veteran Treatment Court Program"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10651a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10651a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–153, § 3](/us/pl/116/153/s3), Aug. 8, 2020, [134 Stat. 688](/us/stat/134/688).)"
---
# § 10651a. Veteran Treatment Court Program

##### § 10651a. Veteran Treatment Court Program

(a) Establishment Subject to the availability of appropriations, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Attorney General shall establish and carry out a Veteran Treatment Court Program to provide grants and technical assistance to court systems that—

(1) have adopted a Veterans Treatment Court Program; or

(2) have filed a notice of intent to establish a Veterans Treatment Court Program with the Secretary.

(b) Purpose The purpose of the Veterans Treatment Court Program established under subsection (a) is to ensure the Department of Justice has a single office to coordinate the provision of grants, training, and technical assistance to help State, local, and Tribal governments to develop and maintain veteran treatment courts.

(c) Programs included The Veterans Treatment Court Program established under subsection (a) shall include the grant programs relating to veterans treatment courts carried out by the Attorney General pursuant to sections 10651 and 10701 of this title or any other provision of law.

(d) Regulations The Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 116–153, § 3](/us/pl/116/153/s3), Aug. 8, 2020, [134 Stat. 688](/us/stat/134/688).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Veteran Treatment Court Coordination Act of 2019, and not as part of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.
