---
title: "§ 7255. Subpoena"
identifier: "USC-T42-S7255"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section7255"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–91, title VI, § 645](/us/pl/95/91/tVI/s645), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 599](/us/stat/91/599); [Pub. L. 95–621, title V, § 508(a)](/us/pl/95/621/tV/s508/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3408](/us/stat/92/3408).)"
---
# § 7255. Subpoena

##### § 7255. Subpoena

For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Secretary, or his duly authorized agent or agents, shall have the same powers and authorities as the Federal Trade Commission under [section 49 of title 15](/us/usc/t15/s49) with respect to all functions vested in, or transferred or delegated to, the Secretary or such agents by this chapter. For purposes of carrying out its responsibilities under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 [[15 U.S.C. 3301](/us/usc/t15/s3301) et seq.], the Commission shall have the same powers and authority as the Secretary has under this section.

*([Pub. L. 95–91, title VI, § 645](/us/pl/95/91/tVI/s645), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 599](/us/stat/91/599); [Pub. L. 95–621, title V, § 508(a)](/us/pl/95/621/tV/s508/a), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3408](/us/stat/92/3408).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–91](/us/pl/95/91), Aug. 4, 1977, [91 Stat. 565](/us/stat/91/565), known as the Department of Energy Organization Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 7101 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s7101) and Tables.

The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 95–621](/us/pl/95/621), Nov. 9, 1978, [92 Stat. 3350](/us/stat/92/3350), which is classified generally to chapter 60 (§ 3301 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 3301 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s3301) and Tables.

#### Amendments

1978—[Pub. L. 95–621](/us/pl/95/621) inserted provision giving the Commission the same powers and authority as the Secretary under this section for purposes of carrying out its responsibilities under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.
