---
title: "§ 1701r. Congressional findings respecting housing for senior citizens"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1701r"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1701r"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–723, § 2](/us/pl/87/723/s2), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 670](/us/stat/76/670); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 19](/us/pl/90/19/s19), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 25](/us/stat/81/25).)"
---
# § 1701r. Congressional findings respecting housing for senior citizens

##### § 1701r. Congressional findings respecting housing for senior citizens

The Congress finds that there is a large and growing need for suitable housing for older people both in urban and rural areas. Our older citizens face special problems in meeting their housing needs because of the prevalence of modest and limited incomes among the elderly, their difficulty in obtaining liberal long-term home mortgage credit, and their need for housing planned and designed to include features necessary to the safety and convenience of the occupants in a suitable neighborhood environment. The Congress further finds that the present programs for housing the elderly under the Department of Housing and Urban Development have proven the value of Federal credit assistance in this field and at the same time demonstrated the urgent need for an expanded and more comprehensive effort to meet our responsibilities to our senior citizens.

*([Pub. L. 87–723, § 2](/us/pl/87/723/s2), Sept. 28, 1962, [76 Stat. 670](/us/stat/76/670); [Pub. L. 90–19, § 19](/us/pl/90/19/s19), May 25, 1967, [81 Stat. 25](/us/stat/81/25).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Senior Citizens Housing Act of 1962, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

1967—[Pub. L. 90–19](/us/pl/90/19) substituted “Department of Housing and Urban Development” for “Housing and Home Finance Agency” in second sentence.
