---
title: "§ 196. Cooperative agreements; delegation of authority"
identifier: "USC-T30-S196"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title30-section196"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "30"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–154, title I](/us/pl/102/154/tI), Nov. 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 1001](/us/stat/105/1001).)"
---
# § 196. Cooperative agreements; delegation of authority

##### § 196. Cooperative agreements; delegation of authority

(a) enter into a cooperative agreement or agreements with any State or Indian tribe to share royalty management information, to carry out inspection, auditing, investigation or enforcement (not including the collection of royalties, civil penalties, or other payments) activities in cooperation with the Secretary, except that the Secretary shall not enter into such cooperative agreement with a State with respect to any such activities on Indian lands except with the permission of the Indian tribe involved; and

(b) upon written request of any State, to delegate to the State all or part of the authorities and responsibilities of the Secretary under the authorizing leasing statutes, leases, and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto to conduct audits, investigations, and inspections, except that the Secretary shall not undertake such a delegation with respect to any Indian lands except with permission of the Indian tribe involved,

*([Pub. L. 102–154, title I](/us/pl/102/154/tI), Nov. 13, 1991, [105 Stat. 1001](/us/stat/105/1001).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of [act Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85](/us/act/1920-02-25/ch85), [41 Stat. 437](/us/stat/41/437), known as the Mineral Leasing Act, which comprises this chapter.
