---
title: "§ 7685. Obsolete ordnance: loan to educational institutions and State soldiers and sailors’ orphans’ homes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S7685"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section7685"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 263](/us/stat/70A/263), § 4685; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(10)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/10), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3441](/us/stat/119/3441); renumbered § 7685, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)"
---
# § 7685. Obsolete ordnance: loan to educational institutions and State soldiers and sailors’ orphans’ homes

##### § 7685. Obsolete ordnance: loan to educational institutions and State soldiers and sailors’ orphans’ homes

(a) Upon the recommendation of the governor of the State concerned or Guam or the Virgin Islands, the Secretary of the Army, under regulations to be prescribed by him and without cost to the United States for transportation, may lend obsolete ordnance and ordnance stores to State, Guam, and the Virgin Islands educational institutions and to State soldiers and sailors’ orphans’ homes, for drill and instruction. However, no loan may be made under this subsection to an institution to which ordnance or ordnance stores may be issued under any law that was in effect on June 30, 1906, and is still in effect.

(b) The Secretary shall require a bond from each institution or home to which property is lent under subsection (a), in double the value of the property lent, for the care and safekeeping of that property and, except for property properly expended, for its return when required.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 263](/us/stat/70A/263), § 4685; [Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(10)](/us/pl/109/163/dA/tX/s1057/a/10), Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3441](/us/stat/119/3441); renumbered § 7685, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 808(d)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s808/d), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1839](/us/stat/132/1839).)*

In subsection (a), the words “at his discretion” and “as may be available” are omitted as surplusage. The word “lend” is substituted for the word “issue” to reflect the intent of the section. 50:62a (1st 13 words of proviso) is omitted as surplusage. The words “and which is still in effect” are inserted for clarity.

In subsection (b), the words “to the United States” are omitted as surplusage. The words “except property properly expended” are inserted for clarity.

The words “subject to such regulations as he may prescribe” are omitted, since the Secretary has inherent authority to issue regulations appropriate to exercising his statutory functions. The words “to any of the ‘National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers’ already established or hereafter established and”, in the [Act of February 8, 1889, ch. 116](/us/act/1889-02-08/ch116), [25 Stat. 657](/us/stat/25/657), are not contained in 50:66 (1st sentence). They are also omitted from the revised section, since the National Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers were dissolved by the [Act of July 3, 1930, ch. 863](/us/act/1930-07-03/ch863), [46 Stat. 1016](/us/stat/46/1016). The Acts of [March 3, 1899, ch. 643](/us/act/1899-03-03/ch643) (1st proviso under “Ordnance Department”), [30 Stat. 1073](/us/stat/30/1073); and [May 26, 1900, ch. 586](/us/act/1900-05-26/ch586) (1st proviso under “Ordnance Department”), [31 Stat. 216](/us/stat/31/216), as amended, relating to disposal of ordnance to “Homes for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers” by the Chief of Ordnance, became inoperative when the Homes were dissolved. Although section 402(e) of the Army Organization Act of 1950, ch. 383, [64 Stat. 273](/us/stat/64/273), amended the Act of May 26, 1900, it did not have the effect of reviving that act. The word “give” is substituted for the word “deliver” to express more clearly the intent of the section. The words “serviceable” and “as may be on hand undisposed of” are omitted as surplusage. The word “may” is substituted for the words “is authorized and directed”, since [section 4684 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4684) provides an alternative method for the disposal of obsolete cannon.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 4685(a) | 50:62a (1st par. and proviso of last par.). | June 30, 1906, ch. 3938, 34 Stat. 817. |
| 4685(b) | 50:62a (last par., less proviso). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 4685 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s4685) as this section.

2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–163](/us/pl/109/163) substituted “State concerned or Guam or the Virgin Islands” for “State or Territory concerned” and “State, Guam, and the Virgin Islands” for “State and Territorial”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
