---
title: "§ 2343. Matters relating to the international materials protection, control, and accounting program of the Department of Energy"
identifier: "USC-T50-S2343"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section2343"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–314, div. C, title XXXI, § 3156](/us/pl/107/314/dC/tXXXI/s3156), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2739](/us/stat/116/2739); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. C, title XXXI, § 3119](/us/pl/111/383/dC/tXXXI/s3119), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4514](/us/stat/124/4514).)"
---
# § 2343. Matters relating to the international materials protection, control, and accounting program of the Department of Energy

##### § 2343. Matters relating to the international materials protection, control, and accounting program of the Department of Energy

(a) Radiological dispersal device materials protection, control, and accounting The Secretary of Energy may establish within the International Materials Protection, Control, and Accounting program of the Department of Energy a program on the protection, control, and accounting of materials usable in radiological dispersal devices. In establishing such program, the Secretary shall—

(1) identify the sites and radiological materials to be covered by such program;

(2) carry out a risk assessment of such radiological materials; and

(3) identify and establish the costs of and schedules for such program.

(b) Revised focus for materials protection, control, and accounting program of Russian Federation

(1) The Secretary of Energy shall work cooperatively with the Russian Federation to develop, as soon as practicable but not later than January 1, 2018, a sustainable nuclear materials protection, control, and accounting system for the nuclear materials of the Russian Federation that is supported solely by the Russian Federation.

(2) The Secretary shall work with the Russian Federation to identify various alternatives to provide the United States adequate transparency in the nuclear materials protection, control, and accounting program of the Russian Federation to assure that such program is meeting applicable goals for nuclear materials protection, control, and accounting.

(c) Amount for activities Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 3101(a)(2) 11 See References in Text note below. for the Department of Energy for the National Nuclear Security Administration for defense nuclear nonproliferation, up to $5,000,000 may be available for carrying out this section.

*([Pub. L. 107–314, div. C, title XXXI, § 3156](/us/pl/107/314/dC/tXXXI/s3156), Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2739](/us/stat/116/2739); [Pub. L. 111–383, div. C, title XXXI, § 3119](/us/pl/111/383/dC/tXXXI/s3119), Jan. 7, 2011, [124 Stat. 4514](/us/stat/124/4514).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Section 3101(a)(2), referred to in subsec. (c), is [section 3101(a)(2) of Pub. L. 107–314](/us/pl/107/314/s3101/a/2), div. C, title XXXI, Dec. 2, 2002, [116 Stat. 2729](/us/stat/116/2729), which is not classified to the Code.

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003, and not as part of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2011—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 111–383](/us/pl/111/383) substituted “January 1, 2018” for “January 1, 2013”.
