---
title: "§ 3308. Activities of United States Government agencies"
identifier: "USC-T22-S3308"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section3308"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 96–8, § 9](/us/pl/96/8/s9), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 18](/us/stat/93/18).)"
---
# § 3308. Activities of United States Government agencies

##### § 3308. Activities of United States Government agencies

(a) Sale, loans, or lease of property; administrative and technical support functions and services Any agency of the United States Government is authorized to sell, loan, or lease property (including interests therein) to, and to perform administrative and technical support functions and services for the operations of, the Institute upon such terms and conditions as the President may direct. Reimbursements to agencies under this subsection shall be credited to the current applicable appropriation of the agency concerned.

(b) Acquisition and acceptance of services Any agency of the United States Government is authorized to acquire and accept services from the Institute upon such terms and conditions as the President may direct. Whenever the President determines it to be in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter, the procurement of services by such agencies from the Institute may be effected without regard to such laws of the United States normally applicable to the acquisition of services by such agencies as the President may specify by Executive order.

(c) Institute books and records; access; audit Any agency of the United States Government making funds available to the Institute in accordance with this chapter shall make arrangements with the Institute for the Comptroller General of the United States to have access to the books and records of the Institute and the opportunity to audit the operations of the Institute.

*([Pub. L. 96–8, § 9](/us/pl/96/8/s9), Apr. 10, 1979, [93 Stat. 18](/us/stat/93/18).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective as of January 1, 1979, see [section 18 of Pub. L. 96–8](/us/pl/96/8/s18), set out as a note under [section 3301 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s3301).
