---
title: "§ 10596. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10596"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10596"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2927](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2927), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 676](/us/stat/122/676); amended [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(c)(2)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/c/2), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 714](/us/stat/130/714); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14028(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14028/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/130/1312).)"
---
# § 10596. Definitions

##### § 10596. Definitions

(1) Nonviolent parent drug offender The term “nonviolent parent drug offender” means an offender who is—

(A) pregnant or a parent of an individual under 18 years of age; and

(B) convicted of a drug (or drug-related) felony that is a nonviolent offense.

(2) Nonviolent offense The term “nonviolent offense” means an offense that—

(A) does not have as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another; or

(B) is not a felony that by its nature involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense.

(3) Prison-based family treatment program The term “prison-based family treatment program” means a program for incarcerated parents or pregnant women in a correctional facility that provides a comprehensive response to offender needs, including substance abuse treatment, child early intervention services, family counseling, legal services, medical care, mental health services, nursery and preschool, parenting skills training, pediatric care, physical therapy, prenatal care, sexual abuse therapy, relapse prevention, transportation, and vocational or GED training.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2927](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s2927), as added [Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 113](/us/pl/110/199/tI/s113), Apr. 9, 2008, [122 Stat. 676](/us/stat/122/676); amended [Pub. L. 114–198, title II, § 201(c)(2)](/us/pl/114/198/tII/s201/c/2), July 22, 2016, [130 Stat. 714](/us/stat/130/714); [Pub. L. 114–255, div. B, title XIV, § 14028(b)](/us/pl/114/255/dB/tXIV/s14028/b), Dec. 13, 2016, [130 Stat. 1312](/us/stat/130/1312).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3797s–6 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3797s–6), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section. Some section numbers or references in amendment notes below reflect the classification of such sections or references prior to editorial reclassification.

#### Amendments

2016—Par. (1)(A). [Pub. L. 114–198, § 201(c)(2)(A)](/us/pl/114/198/s201/c/2/A), inserted “pregnant or” before “a parent”.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 114–255](/us/pl/114/255) substituted “means an offense that—” and subpars. (A) and (B) for “has the meaning given that term in [section 3797aa(a) of this title](/us/usc/t34/s3797aa/a).”

Par. (3). [Pub. L. 114–198, § 201(c)(2)(B)](/us/pl/114/198/s201/c/2/B), inserted “or pregnant women” after “incarcerated parents”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Construction of 2008 Amendment

For construction of amendments by [Pub. L. 110–199](/us/pl/110/199) and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see [section 60504 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s60504).
