---
title: "§ 1110. Daily examination of Congressional Record for immediate ordering of documents for official use; limit; bills and resolutions"
identifier: "USC-T44-S1110"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-02-05"
last_updated: "2025-02-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title44-section1110"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "44"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/82/1262); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)"
---
# § 1110. Daily examination of Congressional Record for immediate ordering of documents for official use; limit; bills and resolutions

##### § 1110. Daily examination of Congressional Record for immediate ordering of documents for official use; limit; bills and resolutions

The heads of executive departments, independent agencies and establishments, respectively, shall cause daily examination of the Congressional Record for the purpose of noting documents, reports, and other publications of interest to their departments, and shall cause an immediate order to be sent to the Director of the Government Publishing Office for the number of copies of the publications required for official use, not to exceed, however, the number of bureaus in the department and divisions in the office of the head. The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall send to each executive department, independent agency and establishment, as soon as printed, five copies of public bills and resolutions, except to the State Department, to which he shall send ten copies of bills and resolutions. When the head of a department, independent agency or establishment desires a greater number of a class of bills or resolutions for official use, the Director of the Government Publishing Office shall furnish them on requisition promptly made.

*([Pub. L. 90–620](/us/pl/90/620), Oct. 22, 1968, [82 Stat. 1262](/us/stat/82/1262); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, § 1301(c)(1)](/us/pl/113/235/dH/tI/s1301/c/1), Dec. 16, 2014, [128 Stat. 2537](/us/stat/128/2537).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 215 ([Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, § 90](/us/act/1895-01-12/ch23/s90), [28 Stat. 623](/us/stat/28/623); [June 20, 1936, ch. 630](/us/act/1936-06-20/ch630), title IX, § 14, [49 Stat. 1553](/us/stat/49/1553)).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–235](/us/pl/113/235) substituted “Director of the Government Publishing Office” for “Public Printer” wherever appearing.
