---
title: "§ 7507. Authority to extend the duration of licenses, certificates of registry, and merchant mariner documents"
identifier: "USC-T46-S7507"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section7507"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title VI, § 615(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tVI/s615/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2971](/us/stat/124/2971); amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title III, § 311](/us/pl/112/213/tIII/s311), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1569](/us/stat/126/1569); [Pub. L. 115–282, title V, § 510(3)](/us/pl/115/282/tV/s510/3), (4), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4274](/us/stat/132/4274).)"
---
# § 7507. Authority to extend the duration of licenses, certificates of registry, and merchant mariner documents

##### § 7507. Authority to extend the duration of licenses, certificates of registry, and merchant mariner documents

(a) Licenses and Certificates of Registry.— Notwithstanding sections 7106 and 7107, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may—

(1) extend for not more than one year an expiring license or certificate of registry issued for an individual under chapter 71 if the Secretary determines that the extension is required to enable the Coast Guard to eliminate a backlog in processing applications for those licenses or certificates of registry or in response to a national emergency or natural disaster, as deemed necessary by the Secretary; or

(2) issue for not more than five years an expiring license or certificate of registry issued for an individual under chapter 71 for the exclusive purpose of aligning the expiration date of such license or certificate of registry with the expiration date of a merchant mariner’s document.

(b) Merchant Mariner Documents.— Notwithstanding section 7302(g), the Secretary may—

(1) extend for not more than one year an expiring merchant mariner’s document issued for an individual under chapter 73 if the Secretary determines that the extension is required to enable the Coast Guard to eliminate a backlog in processing applications for those merchant mariner documents or in response to a national emergency or natural disaster, as deemed necessary by the Secretary; or

(2) issue for not more than five years an expiring merchant mariner’s document issued for an individual under chapter 73 for the exclusive purpose of aligning the expiration date of such merchant mariner’s document with the expiration date of a license or certificate of registry.

(c) Manner of Extension.— Any extensions granted under this section may be granted to individual seamen or a specifically identified group of seamen.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title VI, § 615(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tVI/s615/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2971](/us/stat/124/2971); amended [Pub. L. 112–213, title III, § 311](/us/pl/112/213/tIII/s311), Dec. 20, 2012, [126 Stat. 1569](/us/stat/126/1569); [Pub. L. 115–282, title V, § 510(3)](/us/pl/115/282/tV/s510/3), (4), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4274](/us/stat/132/4274).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 510(3)](/us/pl/115/282/s510/3), substituted “merchant mariner documents” for “licenses or certificates of registry”.

Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 510(4)](/us/pl/115/282/s510/4), substituted “license or certificate of registry.” for “merchant mariner’s document.”

2012—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–213](/us/pl/112/213) substituted “chapter 71” for “chapter 73” in pars. (1) and (2).
