---
title: "§ 10226. Nuclear Regulatory Commission training authorization"
identifier: "USC-T42-S10226"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section10226"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 97–425, title III, § 306](/us/pl/97/425/tIII/s306), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2262](/us/stat/96/2262).)"
---
# § 10226. Nuclear Regulatory Commission training authorization

##### § 10226. Nuclear Regulatory Commission training authorization

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is authorized and directed to promulgate regulations, or other appropriate Commission regulatory guidance, for the training and qualifications of civilian nuclear powerplant operators, supervisors, technicians and other appropriate operating personnel. Such regulations or guidance shall establish simulator training requirements for applicants for civilian nuclear powerplant operator licenses and for operator requalification programs; requirements governing NRC administration of requalification examinations; requirements for operating tests at civilian nuclear powerplant simulators, and instructional requirements for civilian nuclear powerplant licensee personnel training programs. Such regulations or other regulatory guidance shall be promulgated by the Commission within the 12-month period following January 7, 1983, and the Commission within the 12-month period following January 7, 1983, shall submit a report to Congress setting forth the actions the Commission has taken with respect to fulfilling its obligations under this section.

*([Pub. L. 97–425, title III, § 306](/us/pl/97/425/tIII/s306), Jan. 7, 1983, [96 Stat. 2262](/us/stat/96/2262).)*
