---
title: "§ 3311. Submittal to Congress by heads of elements of intelligence community of plans for orderly shutdown in event of absence of appropriations"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3311"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3311"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 323](/us/pl/113/126/tIII/s323), July 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/128/1401).)"
---
# § 3311. Submittal to Congress by heads of elements of intelligence community of plans for orderly shutdown in event of absence of appropriations

##### § 3311. Submittal to Congress by heads of elements of intelligence community of plans for orderly shutdown in event of absence of appropriations

(a) In general Whenever the head of an applicable agency submits a plan to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with section 124 of Office of Management and Budget Circular A–11, pertaining to agency operations in the absence of appropriations, or any successor circular of the Office that requires the head of an applicable agency to submit to the Director a plan for an orderly shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations, such head shall submit a copy of such plan to the following:

(1) The congressional intelligence committees.

(2) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

(3) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(4) In the case of a plan for an element of the intelligence community that is within the Department of Defense, to—

(A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(b) Head of an applicable agency defined In this section, the term “head of an applicable agency” includes the following:

(1) The Director of National Intelligence.

(2) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.

(3) Each head of each element of the intelligence community that is within the Department of Defense.

*([Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 323](/us/pl/113/126/tIII/s323), July 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 1401](/us/stat/128/1401).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition

For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” referred to in subsec. (a)(1), see [section 2 of Pub. L. 113–126](/us/pl/113/126/s2), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).
