---
title: "§ 8103. Medical services and initial medical and other benefits"
identifier: "USC-T5-S8103"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section8103"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 535](/us/stat/80/535); [Pub. L. 90–83, § 1(49)](/us/pl/90/83/s1/49), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 209](/us/stat/81/209); [Pub. L. 93–416, § 2](/us/pl/93/416/s2), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/88/1144).)"
---
# § 8103. Medical services and initial medical and other benefits

##### § 8103. Medical services and initial medical and other benefits

(a) The United States shall furnish to an employee who is injured while in the performance of duty, the services, appliances, and supplies prescribed or recommended by a qualified physician, which the Secretary of Labor considers likely to cure, give relief, reduce the degree or the period of disability, or aid in lessening the amount of the monthly compensation. These services, appliances, and supplies shall be furnished—

The employee may initially select a physician to provide medical services, appliances, and supplies, in accordance with such regulations and instructions as the Secretary considers necessary, and may be furnished necessary and reasonable transportation and expenses incident to the securing of such services, appliances, and supplies. These expenses, when authorized or approved by the Secretary, shall be paid from the Employees’ Compensation Fund.

(1) whether or not disability has arisen;

(2) notwithstanding that the employee has accepted or is entitled to receive benefits under subchapter III of chapter 83 of this title or another retirement system for employees of the Government; and

(3) by or on the order of United States medical officers and hospitals, or, at the employee’s option, by or on the order of physicians and hospitals designated or approved by the Secretary.

(b) The Secretary, under such limitations or conditions as he considers necessary, may authorize the employing agencies to provide for the initial furnishing of medical and other benefits under this section. The Secretary may certify vouchers for these expenses out of the Employees’ Compensation Fund when the immediate superior of the employee certifies that the expense was incurred in respect to an injury which was accepted by the employing agency as probably compensable under this subchapter. The Secretary shall prescribe the form and content of the certificate.

*([Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 535](/us/stat/80/535); [Pub. L. 90–83, § 1(49)](/us/pl/90/83/s1/49), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 209](/us/stat/81/209); [Pub. L. 93–416, § 2](/us/pl/93/416/s2), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1144](/us/stat/88/1144).)*

In subsection (b), the words “when the immediate superior of the employee certifies” are substituted for “upon certification by the person required by [section 774 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s774) to make reports of injury”.

The last sentence of former section 759(a) is omitted as executed.

Administration of this subchapter was transferred to the Secretary of Labor by section 1 of 1950 Reorg. Plan No. 19, [64 Stat. 1271](/us/stat/64/1271) (see section 8145).

Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1966 Act |  |  |
| *Derivation* | *U.S. Code* | *Revised Statutes and**Statutes at Large* |
|  | 5 U.S.C. 759(a). | Sept. 7, 1916, ch. 458, § 9, 39 Stat. 743. |
|  |  | June 26, 1926, ch. 695, § 1, 44 Stat. 772. |
|  |  | Oct. 14, 1949, ch. 691, § 202(b), 63 Stat. 862. |
|  |  | Sept. 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86–767, § 203, 74 Stat. 907. |

The words “another retirement system for employees of the Government” are substituted for “any other Federal Act or program providing retirement benefits for employees”.

| 1967 Act |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Section of title 5* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8103(a)(2) | 5 App.: 759(a). | July 4, 1966, Pub. L. 89–488, § 5(b), 80 Stat. 253. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1974—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416) substituted “at the employee’s option” for “when this is not practicable”, struck out “private” before “physicians and hospitals” in par. (3), and, in provision following par. (3), added authorization for the employee to initially select a physician in accordance with such regulations and instructions considered necessary by the Secretary.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1974 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416) applicable to cases where injury or death occurred prior to Sept. 7, 1974, but only to a period beginning on or after Sept. 7, 1974, see [section 28(a) of Pub. L. 93–416](/us/pl/93/416/s28/a), set out as a note under [section 8101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8101).

#### Personnel Not Affected by 1967 Increase

[Pub. L. 90–83, § 7](/us/pl/90/83/s7), Sept. 11, 1967, [81 Stat. 222](/us/stat/81/222), provided that: “Nothing in this or any other Act makes the increases authorized by section 1(49)—(52) [amending this section and sections 8107, 8108, and 8109 of this title], 53(B) and (C) [amending [section 8110 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8110)], (54)—(58) [amending section 8111, 8112, 8116, 8122, and 8124 of this title], (60) [amending [section 8131 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8131)], (61) [amending [section 8132 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8132)], (62) (B) [amending [section 8133(e) of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8133/e)], (63) [amending [section 8135 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8135)], (67) [adding [section 8146a of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8146a)], (68) [amending [section 8147 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8147)], and (71) [amending [section 8149 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s8149)] of this Act applicable to— “(1) an employee or individual not within the definition of ‘employee’ in section 8101(1)(A), (B), or (D) of title 5, United States Code; “(2) a member of the Metropolitan Police or the Fire Department of the District of Columbia who is pensioned or pensionable under sections 521—535 of title 4, District of Columbia Code; or “(3) a member of a uniformed service.”
