---
title: "§ 44916. Assessments and evaluations"
identifier: "USC-T49-S44916"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section44916"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title III, § 312(a)](/us/pl/104/264/tIII/s312/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3253](/us/stat/110/3253); amended [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(3)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/3), (7), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(14)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/14), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3635](/us/stat/132/3635).)"
---
# § 44916. Assessments and evaluations

##### § 44916. Assessments and evaluations

(a) Periodic Assessments.— The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall require each air carrier and airport (including the airport owner or operator in cooperation with the air carriers and vendors serving each airport) that provides for intrastate, interstate, or foreign air transportation to conduct periodic vulnerability assessments of the security systems of that air carrier or airport, respectively. The Transportation Security Administration shall perform periodic audits of such assessments.

(b) Investigations.— The Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall conduct periodic and unannounced inspections of security systems of airports and air carriers to determine the effectiveness and vulnerabilities of such systems. To the extent allowable by law, the Administrator may provide for anonymous tests of those security systems.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–264, title III, § 312(a)](/us/pl/104/264/tIII/s312/a), Oct. 9, 1996, [110 Stat. 3253](/us/stat/110/3253); amended [Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 101(f)(3)](/us/pl/107/71/tI/s101/f/3), (7), Nov. 19, 2001, [115 Stat. 603](/us/stat/115/603); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. K, title I, § 1991(d)(14)](/us/pl/115/254/dK/tI/s1991/d/14), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3635](/us/stat/132/3635).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(14)(A)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/14/A), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration” for “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254, § 1991(d)(14)(B)](/us/pl/115/254/s1991/d/14/B), substituted “Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall” for “Under Secretary shall” and “Administrator may” for “Under Secretary may”.

2001—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(3)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/3), substituted “Under Secretary of Transportation for Security” for “Administrator” in first sentence and “Transportation Security Administration” for “Administration” in second sentence.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 107–71, § 101(f)(7)](/us/pl/107/71/s101/f/7), substituted “Under Secretary” for “Administrator” in two places.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Except as otherwise specifically provided, section applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1996, and not to be construed as affecting funds made available for a fiscal year ending before Oct. 1, 1996, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 104–264](/us/pl/104/264/s3), set out as an Effective Date of 1996 Amendment note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).
