---
title: "§ 6903. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6903"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6903"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tII/s204), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 894](/us/stat/114/894).)"
---
# § 6903. Definitions

##### § 6903. Definitions

(1) Dispute Settlement Understanding The term “Dispute Settlement Understanding” means the Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement of Disputes referred to in [section 3511(d)(16) of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s3511/d/16).

(2) Government of the People’s Republic of China The term “Government of the People’s Republic of China” means the central Government of the People’s Republic of China and any other governmental entity, including any provincial, prefectural, or local entity and any enterprise that is controlled by the central Government or any such governmental entity or as to which the central Government or any such governmental entity is entitled to receive a majority of the profits.

(3) Internationally recognized worker rights The term “internationally recognized worker rights” has the meaning given that term in [section 2467(4) of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s2467/4) and includes the right to the elimination of the “worst forms of child labor”, as defined in [section 2467(6) of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s2467/6).

(4) Trade Representative The term “Trade Representative” means the United States Trade Representative.

(5) WTO; World Trade Organization The terms “WTO” and “World Trade Organization” mean the organization established pursuant to the WTO Agreement.

(6) WTO Agreement The term “WTO Agreement” means the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization entered into on April 15, 1994.

(7) WTO member The term “WTO member” has the meaning given that term in [section 3501(10) of title 19](/us/usc/t19/s3501/10).

*([Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title II, § 204](/us/pl/106/286/dB/tII/s204), Oct. 10, 2000, [114 Stat. 894](/us/stat/114/894).)*
