---
title: "§ 41101. Funds for exchange of identification records"
identifier: "USC-T34-S41101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section41101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–544, title II](/us/pl/92/544/tII), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1115](/us/stat/86/1115); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VIII, § 802(c)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVIII/s802/c), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 898](/us/stat/136/898).)"
---
# § 41101. Funds for exchange of identification records

##### § 41101. Funds for exchange of identification records

The funds provided for Salaries and Expenses, Federal Bureau of Investigation, may be used hereafter, in addition to those uses authorized thereunder, for the exchange of identification records with officials or federally chartered or insured banking institutions to promote or maintain the security of those institutions, and, if authorized by State or Tribal statute and approved by the Attorney General, to officials of State, Tribal, and local governments for purposes of employment and licensing, any such exchange to be made only for the official use of any such official and subject to the same restriction with respect to dissemination as that provided for under the aforementioned appropriation.

*([Pub. L. 92–544, title II](/us/pl/92/544/tII), Oct. 25, 1972, [86 Stat. 1115](/us/stat/86/1115); [Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title VIII, § 802(c)](/us/pl/117/103/dW/tVIII/s802/c), Mar. 15, 2022, [136 Stat. 898](/us/stat/136/898).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified as a note under [section 534 of Title 28](/us/usc/t28/s534), Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Department of Justice Appropriation Act, 1973, and also from the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 1973.

#### Amendments

2022—[Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) inserted “or Tribal” after “if authorized by State” and “, Tribal,” before “and local governments”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103) not effective until Oct. 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after Mar. 15, 2022, see [section 4(a) of div. W of Pub. L. 117–103](/us/pl/117/103/dW/s4/a), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 6851 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s6851), Commerce and Trade.
