---
title: "§ 47503. Noise exposure maps"
identifier: "USC-T49-S47503"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-20"
last_updated: "2024-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title49-section47503"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "49"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1284](/us/stat/108/1284); [Pub. L. 108–176, title III, § 324](/us/pl/108/176/tIII/s324), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2542](/us/stat/117/2542); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 174](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s174), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3228](/us/stat/132/3228).)"
---
# § 47503. Noise exposure maps

##### § 47503. Noise exposure maps

(a) Submission and Preparation.— An airport operator may submit to the Secretary of Transportation a noise exposure map showing the noncompatible uses in each area of the map on the date the map is submitted, a description of estimated aircraft operations during a forecast period that is at least 5 years in the future and how those operations will affect the map. The map shall—

(1) be prepared in consultation with public agencies and planning authorities in the area surrounding the airport; and

(2) comply with regulations prescribed under [section 47502 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s47502).

(b) Revised Maps.—

(1) In general.— An airport operator that submits a noise exposure map under subsection (a) shall submit a revised map to the Secretary if, in an area surrounding an airport, a change in the operation of the airport would establish a substantial new noncompatible use, or would significantly reduce noise over existing noncompatible uses, that is not reflected in either the existing conditions map or forecast map currently on file with the Federal Aviation Administration.

(2) Timing.— A submission under paragraph (1) shall be required only if the relevant change in the operation of the airport occurs during—

(A) the forecast period of the applicable noise exposure map submitted by an airport operator under subsection (a); or

(B) the implementation period of the airport operator’s noise compatibility program.

*([Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e)](/us/pl/103/272/s1/e), July 5, 1994, [108 Stat. 1284](/us/stat/108/1284); [Pub. L. 108–176, title III, § 324](/us/pl/108/176/tIII/s324), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2542](/us/stat/117/2542); [Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title I, § 174](/us/pl/115/254/dB/tI/s174), Oct. 5, 2018, [132 Stat. 3228](/us/stat/132/3228).)*

In subsection (a), before clause (1), the words “After the effective date of the regulations promulgated in accordance with section 2102 of this Appendix” are omitted as executed. The words “of an airport” and “at such airport” are omitted as surplus. The word “how” is substituted for “the ways, if any, in which” to eliminate unnecessary words. In clause (1), the words “planning authorities” are substituted for “planning agencies” for consistency.

In subsection (b), the words “to the Secretary” are added for clarity. The words “after the submission to the Secretary of a noise exposure map under paragraph (1)” are omitted as surplus.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 47503(a) | 49 App.:2103(a)(1). | Feb. 18, 1980, Pub. L. 96–193, § 103(a), 94 Stat. 50. |
| 47503(b) | 49 App.:2103(a)(2). |  |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 115–254](/us/pl/115/254) amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “If, in an area surrounding an airport, a change in the operation of the airport would establish a substantial new noncompatible use, or would significantly reduce noise over existing noncompatible uses, that is not reflected in either the existing conditions map or forecast map currently on file with the Federal Aviation Administration, the airport operator shall submit a revised noise exposure map to the Secretary showing the new noncompatible use or noise reduction.”

2003—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 108–176, § 324(1)](/us/pl/108/176/s324/1), substituted “a forecast period that is at least 5 years in the future” for “1985,” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 108–176, § 324(2)](/us/pl/108/176/s324/2), added subsec. (b) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (b). Text read as follows: “If a change in the operation of an airport will establish a substantial new noncompatible use in an area surrounding the airport, the airport operator shall submit a revised noise exposure map to the Secretary showing the new noncompatible use.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176) applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see [section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176](/us/pl/108/176/s3), set out as a note under [section 106 of this title](/us/usc/t49/s106).

#### Noise Disclosure

[Pub. L. 108–176, title III, § 322](/us/pl/108/176/tIII/s322), Dec. 12, 2003, [117 Stat. 2540](/us/stat/117/2540), provided that: “(a) Noise Disclosure System Implementation Study.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall conduct a study to determine the feasibility of developing a program under which prospective home buyers of property located in the vicinity of an airport could be notified of information derived from noise exposure maps that may affect the use and enjoyment of the property. The study shall assess the scope, administration, usefulness, and burdensomeness of any such program, the costs and benefits of such a program, and whether participation in such a program should be voluntary or mandatory. “(b) Public Availability of Noise Exposure Maps.—The Administrator shall make noise exposure and land use information from noise exposure maps available to the public via the Internet on its website in an appropriate format. “(c) Noise Exposure Map.—In this section, the term ‘noise exposure map’ means a noise exposure map prepared under [section 47503 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s47503), United States Code.”
