---
title: "§ 50314. Presentation of Federal Law Enforcement Badges"
identifier: "USC-T34-S50314"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section50314"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–298, title I, § 104](/us/pl/110/298/tI/s104), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2989](/us/stat/122/2989).)"
---
# § 50314. Presentation of Federal Law Enforcement Badges

##### § 50314. Presentation of Federal Law Enforcement Badges

(a) Presentation by Member of Congress A Member of Congress may present a Federal Law Enforcement Badge to any Federal Law Enforcement Badge recipient who resides in such Member’s congressional district. If both a Senator and Representative choose to present a Federal Law Enforcement Badge, such Senator and Representative shall make a joint presentation.

(b) Presentation by Attorney General If no Member of Congress chooses to present the Federal Law Enforcement Badge as described in subsection (a), the Attorney General, or a designee of the Attorney General, shall present such Federal Law Enforcement Badge.

(c) Presentation arrangements The office of the Member of Congress presenting each Federal Law Enforcement Badge may make arrangements for the presentation of such Federal Law Enforcement Badge, and if a Senator and Representative choose to participate jointly as described in subsection (a), the Members shall make joint arrangements. The Federal Board shall facilitate any such presentation arrangements as requested by the congressional office presenting the Federal Law Enforcement Badge and shall make arrangements in cases not undertaken by Members of Congress.

*([Pub. L. 110–298, title I, § 104](/us/pl/110/298/tI/s104), July 31, 2008, [122 Stat. 2989](/us/stat/122/2989).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15244 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15244), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
