---
title: "§ 1473. Commission proceeding on autodialing"
identifier: "USC-T47-S1473"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section1473"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6507](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6507), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 243](/us/stat/126/243).)"
---
# § 1473. Commission proceeding on autodialing

##### § 1473. Commission proceeding on autodialing

(a) In general Not later than 90 days after February 22, 2012, the Commission shall initiate a proceeding to create a specialized Do-Not-Call registry for public safety answering points.

(b) Features of the registry The Commission shall issue regulations, after providing the public with notice and an opportunity to comment, that—

(1) permit verified public safety answering point administrators or managers to register the telephone numbers of all 9–1–1 trunks and other lines used for the provision of emergency services to the public or for communications between public safety agencies;

(2) provide a process for verifying, no less frequently than once every 7 years, that registered numbers should continue to appear upon the registry;

(3) provide a process for granting and tracking access to the registry by the operators of automatic dialing equipment;

(4) protect the list of registered numbers from disclosure or dissemination by parties granted access to the registry; and

(5) prohibit the use of automatic dialing or “robocall” equipment to establish contact with registered numbers.

(c) Enforcement The Commission shall—

(1) establish monetary penalties for violations of the protective regulations established pursuant to subsection (b)(4) of not less than $100,000 per incident nor more than $1,000,000 per incident;

(2) establish monetary penalties for violations of the prohibition on automatically dialing registered numbers established pursuant to subsection (b)(5) of not less than $10,000 per call nor more than $100,000 per call; and

(3) provide for the imposition of fines under paragraphs (1) or (2) that vary depending upon whether the conduct leading to the violation was negligent, grossly negligent, reckless, or willful, and depending on whether the violation was a first or subsequent offence.

*([Pub. L. 112–96, title VI, § 6507](/us/pl/112/96/tVI/s6507), Feb. 22, 2012, [126 Stat. 243](/us/stat/126/243).)*
