---
title: "§ 459c–6. Administration of property"
identifier: "USC-T16-S459c–6"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section459c–6"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–657, § 6](/us/pl/87/657/s6), formerly § 7, Sept. 13, 1962, [76 Stat. 541](/us/stat/76/541); renumbered § 6, [Pub. L. 91–223, § 2(c)](/us/pl/91/223/s2/c), Apr. 3, 1970, [84 Stat. 90](/us/stat/84/90); amended [Pub. L. 94–544, § 4(a)](/us/pl/94/544/s4/a), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2515](/us/stat/90/2515); [Pub. L. 94–567, § 7(a)](/us/pl/94/567/s7/a), Oct. 20, 1976, [90 Stat. 2695](/us/stat/90/2695).)"
---
# § 459c–6. Administration of property

##### § 459c–6. Administration of property

(a) Protection, restoration, and preservation of natural environment Except as otherwise provided in sections 459c to 459c–7 of this title, the property acquired by the Secretary under such sections shall be administered by the Secretary without impairment of its natural values, in a manner which provides for such recreational, educational, historic preservation, interpretation, and scientific research opportunities as are consistent with, based upon, and supportive of the maximum protection, restoration, and preservation of the natural environment within the area, subject to the provisions of the Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535)),11 See References in Text note below. as amended and supplemented, and in accordance with other laws of general application relating to the national park system as defined by the Act of August 8, 1953 ([67 Stat. 496](/us/stat/67/496)),1 except that authority otherwise available to the Secretary for the conservation and management of natural resources may be utilized to the extent he finds such authority will further the purposes of sections 459c to 459c–7 of this title.

(b) Hunting and fishing regulations The Secretary may permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters under his jurisdiction within the seashore in such areas and under such regulations as he may prescribe during open seasons prescribed by applicable local, State, and Federal law. The Secretary shall consult with officials of the State of California and any political subdivision thereof who have jurisdiction of hunting and fishing prior to the issuance of any such regulations, and the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with such officials regarding such hunting and fishing as he may deem desirable.

*([Pub. L. 87–657, § 6](/us/pl/87/657/s6), formerly § 7, Sept. 13, 1962, [76 Stat. 541](/us/stat/76/541); renumbered § 6, [Pub. L. 91–223, § 2(c)](/us/pl/91/223/s2/c), Apr. 3, 1970, [84 Stat. 90](/us/stat/84/90); amended [Pub. L. 94–544, § 4(a)](/us/pl/94/544/s4/a), Oct. 18, 1976, [90 Stat. 2515](/us/stat/90/2515); [Pub. L. 94–567, § 7(a)](/us/pl/94/567/s7/a), Oct. 20, 1976, [90 Stat. 2695](/us/stat/90/2695).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Act entitled “An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes”, approved August 25, 1916 ([39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535)), referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408](/us/act/1916-08-25/ch408), [39 Stat. 535](/us/stat/39/535), known as the National Park Service Organic Act, which enacted sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and provisions set out as a note under [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101), National Park Service and Related Programs. Sections 1 to 4 of the Act were repealed and restated as [section 1865(a) of Title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1865/a), Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of Title 54 by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 4(a)(1), 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3260, 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

The Act of August 8, 1953 ([67 Stat. 496](/us/stat/67/496)), referred to in subsec. (a), is [act Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 384](/us/act/1953-08-08/ch384), [67 Stat. 496](/us/stat/67/496), which enacted sections 1b to 1d of this title. The Act, except for section 1(3), was repealed and restated in sections 100501, 100755, 100901, 101901, 102711, and 103102 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs, by [Pub. L. 113–287](/us/pl/113/287), §§ 3, 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3094](/us/stat/128/3094), 3272. Section 1(3) of the Act was transferred and is set out as a note under [section 407a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s407a). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of this title, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of Title 54](/us/usc/t54/s100101).

#### Amendments

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–544](/us/pl/94/544) and [Pub. L. 94–567](/us/pl/94/567) made substantially identical amendments by inserting provision which directed the Secretary to administer the property acquired in such a manner so as to provide recreational, educational, historic preservation, interpretation, and scientific research opportunities consistent with the maximum protection, restoration, and preservation of the environment.
