---
title: "§ 8223. Grants"
identifier: "USC-T38-S8223"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-12-03"
last_updated: "2024-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title38-section8223"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "38"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 92–541, § 2(a)](/us/pl/92/541/s2/a), Oct. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 1104](/us/stat/86/1104), § 5083; amended [Pub. L. 94–581, title II](/us/pl/94/581/tII), §§ 207, 210(f)(4), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2860](/us/stat/90/2860), 2865; [Pub. L. 96–151, title I, § 103(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/151/tI/s103/b/2), Dec. 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 1093](/us/stat/93/1093); renumbered § 8223, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/2/C), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 239](/us/stat/105/239); ["
---
# § 8223. Grants

##### § 8223. Grants

(a) Any medical school which is affiliated with the Department under an agreement entered into pursuant to this title may apply to the Secretary for a grant under this subchapter to assist such school, in part, to carry out, through the Department medical facility with which it is affiliated, projects and programs in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, except that no grant shall be made for the construction of any building which will not be located on land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary. Any such application shall contain such information in such detail as the Secretary deems necessary and appropriate.

(b) An application for a grant under this section may be approved by the Secretary only upon the Secretary’s determination that—

(1) the proposed projects and programs for which the grant will be made will make a significant contribution to improving the medical education (including continuing education) program of the school;

(2) the application contains or is supported by adequate assurance that any Federal funds made available under this subchapter will be supplemented by funds or other resources available from other sources, whether public or private;

(3) the application sets forth such fiscal control and accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement of, and accounting for, Federal funds expended under this subchapter; and

(4) the application provides for making such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may require to carry out the Secretary’s functions under this subchapter, and for keeping such records and for affording such access thereto as the Secretary may find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports.

*(Added [Pub. L. 92–541, § 2(a)](/us/pl/92/541/s2/a), Oct. 24, 1972, [86 Stat. 1104](/us/stat/86/1104), § 5083; amended [Pub. L. 94–581, title II](/us/pl/94/581/tII), §§ 207, 210(f)(4), Oct. 21, 1976, [90 Stat. 2860](/us/stat/90/2860), 2865; [Pub. L. 96–151, title I, § 103(b)(2)](/us/pl/96/151/tI/s103/b/2), Dec. 20, 1979, [93 Stat. 1093](/us/stat/93/1093); renumbered § 8223, [Pub. L. 102–40, title IV, § 402(b)(2)(C)](/us/pl/102/40/tIV/s402/b/2/C), May 7, 1991, [105 Stat. 239](/us/stat/105/239); [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), (b)(1), (2)(E), Aug. 6, 1991, [105 Stat. 404](/us/stat/105/404), 405.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1991—[Pub. L. 102–40](/us/pl/102/40) renumbered [section 5083 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s5083) as this section.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” wherever appearing.

[Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/a/3), (4), substituted “Department” for “Veterans’ Administration” in two places.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 102–83, § 4(b)(1)](/us/pl/102/83/s4/b/1), (2)(E), substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” and “Secretary’s” for “Administrator’s” wherever appearing.

1979—Subsec. (b)(1). [Pub. L. 96–151](/us/pl/96/151) struck out provisions relating to requirement that a substantial increase in number of medical students attending such school result from approval of grant.

1976—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 94–581, § 207](/us/pl/94/581/s207), substituted “pursuant to this title” for “pursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 81 of this title”.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 94–581, § 210(f)(4)](/us/pl/94/581/s210/f/4), substituted “the Administrator’s” for “his” in provisions preceding par. (1) and in par. (4).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 94–581](/us/pl/94/581) effective Oct. 21, 1976, see [section 211 of Pub. L. 94–581](/us/pl/94/581/s211), set out as a note under [section 111 of this title](/us/usc/t38/s111).
