---
title: "§ 305105. Description of property"
identifier: "USC-T54-S305105"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section305105"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3219](/us/stat/128/3219).)"
---
# § 305105. Description of property

##### § 305105. Description of property

(a) In General.— The Administrator shall prepare the legal description of any historic light station conveyed under this chapter. The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary, may retain all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to any historical artifact, including any lens or lantern, that is associated with the historic light station and located at the historic light station at the time of conveyance. Wherever possible, the historical artifacts should be used in interpreting the historic light station. In cases where there is no method for preserving lenses and other artifacts and equipment in situ, priority should be given to preservation or museum entities most closely associated with the historic light station, if they meet loan requirements.

(b) Artifacts.— Artifacts associated with, but not located at, a historic light station at the time of conveyance shall remain the property of the United States under the administrative control of the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(c) Covenants.— All conditions placed with the quitclaim deed of title to the historic light station shall be construed as covenants running with the land.

(d) Submerged Land.— No submerged land shall be conveyed under this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3219](/us/stat/128/3219).)*

In subsection (a), the words “Secretary of Homeland Security” are substituted for “Commandant, United States Coast Guard” because of [6 U.S.C. 112(a)(2)](/us/usc/t6/s112/a/2), 468(b) and (h), 551(d), and 552(d) and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002 (H. Doc. No. 108–16, 108th Cong., 1st Sess. ([6 U.S.C. 542](/us/usc/t6/s542) note)).

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 305105 | 16 U.S.C. 470w–7(d). | Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 308(d), as added Pub. L. 106–355, § 2, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1388. |
