---
title: "§ 3682. Size and weight limits"
identifier: "USC-T39-S3682"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title39-section3682"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "39"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 765](/us/stat/84/765); [Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1331(e)(4)](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1331/e/4), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 482](/us/stat/93/482); [Pub. L. 97–242, § 1(a)](/us/pl/97/242/s1/a), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 300](/us/stat/96/300); [Pub. L. 109–435, title X, § 1010(b)](/us/pl/109/435/tX/s1010/b), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3261](/us/stat/120/3261).)"
---
# § 3682. Size and weight limits

##### § 3682. Size and weight limits

The Postal Service may establish size and weight limitations for mail matter in the market-dominant category of mail consistent with regulations the Postal Regulatory Commission may prescribe under section 3622. The Postal Service may establish size and weight limitations for mail matter in the competitive category of mail consistent with its authority under section 3632.

*([Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375), Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 765](/us/stat/84/765); [Pub. L. 96–70, title I, § 1331(e)(4)](/us/pl/96/70/tI/s1331/e/4), Sept. 27, 1979, [93 Stat. 482](/us/stat/93/482); [Pub. L. 97–242, § 1(a)](/us/pl/97/242/s1/a), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 300](/us/stat/96/300); [Pub. L. 109–435, title X, § 1010(b)](/us/pl/109/435/tX/s1010/b), Dec. 20, 2006, [120 Stat. 3261](/us/stat/120/3261).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2006—[Pub. L. 109–435](/us/pl/109/435) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Postal Service may establish size and weight limitations for mail matter in the same manner as prescribed for changes in mail classification under subchapter II of this chapter.”

1982—[Pub. L. 97–242](/us/pl/97/242) struck out subsecs. (a) and (b) and designation “(c)” before “The Postal Service” and in resulting undesignated paragraph substituted “mail matter” and “mail classification” for “letter mail” and “classification”, respectively. Former subsecs. (a) and (b) had provided that the maximum weight of mail other than letter mail was 40 pounds, that the maximum size was 78 inches in girth and length combined before July 1, 1971, and 84 inches in girth and length combined on and after July 1, 1971, and that the maximum size on mail, other than letter mail, was 100 inches in girth and length combined and the maximum weight was 70 pounds if the mail (1) was mailed at, or addressed for delivery at, other than first-class post offices or on rural or star routes, (2) contained baby fowl, live plants, trees, shrubs, or agricultural commodities but not the manufactured products of those commodities, (3) would have been entitled to be mailed under former [section 4554 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s4554), (4) was addressed to or mailed at any Armed Forces post office outside the 50 States, or (5) was addressed to or mailed in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the States of Alaska and Hawaii, or a possession of the United States including the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

1979—Subsec. (b)(5). [Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70) struck out “the Canal Zone and” after “United States including”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1982 Amendment

[Pub. L. 97–242, § 1(b)](/us/pl/97/242/s1/b), Aug. 24, 1982, [96 Stat. 300](/us/stat/96/300), provided that: “The size and weight limitations for other than letter mail established by subsections (a) and (b) of [section 3682 of title 39](/us/usc/t39/s3682), United States Code, as in effect on the day prior to the effective date of this section [Aug. 24, 1982], shall remain in effect until changed pursuant to section 3682 of such title, as amended, by subsection (a) of this section.”

#### Effective Date of 1979 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70) effective Oct. 1, 1979, see [section 3304 of Pub. L. 96–70](/us/pl/96/70/s3304), set out as an Effective Date note under [section 3601 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3601), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Effective Date

Section effective Jan. 20, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–10 of the Board of Governors. See [section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375](/us/pl/91/375/s15/a), set out as a note preceding [section 101 of this title](/us/usc/t39/s101).
