---
title: "§ 4217. Documents relating to the internment"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4217"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4217"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 107](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s107), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 909](/us/stat/102/909).)"
---
# § 4217. Documents relating to the internment

##### § 4217. Documents relating to the internment

(a) Preservation of documents in National Archives All documents, personal testimony, and other records created or received by the Commission during its inquiry shall be kept and maintained by the Archivist of the United States who shall preserve such documents, testimony, and records in the National Archives of the United States. The Archivist shall make such documents, testimony, and records available to the public for research purposes.

(b) Public availability of certain records of the House of Representatives

(1) The Clerk of the House of Representatives is authorized to permit the Archivist of the United States to make available for use records of the House not classified for national security purposes, which have been in existence for not less than thirty years, relating to the evacuation, relocation, and internment of individuals during the evacuation, relocation, and internment period.

(2) This subsection is enacted as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of Representatives, but is applicable only with respect to the availability of records to which it applies, and supersedes other rules only to the extent that the time limitation established by this section with respect to such records is specifically inconsistent with such rules, and is enacted with full recognition of the constitutional right of the House to change its rules at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the House.

*([Pub. L. 100–383, title I, § 107](/us/pl/100/383/tI/s107), Aug. 10, 1988, [102 Stat. 909](/us/stat/102/909).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 1989b–6 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
