---
title: "§ 101. Massachusetts"
identifier: "USC-T28-S101"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title28-section101"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "28"
source_credit: "([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 882](/us/stat/62/882).)"
---
# § 101. Massachusetts

##### § 101. Massachusetts

Massachusetts constitutes one judicial district.

Court shall be held at Boston, New Bedford, Springfield, and Worcester.

*([June 25, 1948, ch. 646](/us/act/1948-06-25/ch646), [62 Stat. 882](/us/stat/62/882).)*

#### Historical and Revision Notes

Based on title 28, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 167 ([Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, § 87](/us/act/1911-03-03/ch231/s87), [36 Stat. 1114](/us/stat/36/1114); [May 1, 1922, ch. 173](/us/act/1922-05-01/ch173), [42 Stat. 503](/us/stat/42/503); [May 17, 1926, ch. 306](/us/act/1926-05-17/ch306), [44 Stat. 559](/us/stat/44/559)).

Words “and the terms at Boston shall not be terminated or affected by the terms at Springfield, New Bedford, or Worcester,” were omitted as covered by [section 138 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s138).

Provisions relating to appointment of deputy clerks and deputy marshals, and maintenance of office by said deputies were omitted as covered by sections 541 [see 561], 542 [see 561], and 751 of this title.

Provisions for furnishing rooms and accommodations at Springfield and Worcester were omitted as obsolete upon advice of Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts that federal accommodations have been provided at such places.

A provision requiring the return of all process to the terms at Boston and the keeping of all court papers in the clerk’s office at Boston, unless otherwise specially ordered by the court, was omitted, since such matters can be regulated more appropriately by court rule or order. See Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 4(g).

The provision respecting court accommodations at New Bedford was omitted as covered by [section 142 of this title](/us/usc/t28/s142).

Changes in arrangement and phraseology were made.
