---
title: "§ 296. Liability of States, instrumentalities of States, and State officials for infringement of patents"
identifier: "USC-T35-S296"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-12"
last_updated: "2025-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title35-section296"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "35"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 102–560, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/560/s2/a/2), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/106/4230).)"
---
# § 296. Liability of States, instrumentalities of States, and State officials for infringement of patents

##### § 296. Liability of States, instrumentalities of States, and State officials for infringement of patents

(a) In General.— Any State, any instrumentality of a State, and any officer or employee of a State or instrumentality of a State acting in his official capacity, shall not be immune, under the eleventh amendment of the Constitution of the United States or under any other doctrine of sovereign immunity, from suit in Federal court by any person, including any governmental or nongovernmental entity, for infringement of a patent under section 271, or for any other violation under this title.

(b) Remedies.— In a suit described in subsection (a) for a violation described in that subsection, remedies (including remedies both at law and in equity) are available for the violation to the same extent as such remedies are available for such a violation in a suit against any private entity. Such remedies include damages, interest, costs, and treble damages under section 284, attorney fees under section 285, and the additional remedy for infringement of design patents under section 289.

*(Added [Pub. L. 102–560, § 2(a)(2)](/us/pl/102/560/s2/a/2), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4230](/us/stat/106/4230).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Constitutionality

For information regarding the constitutionality of this section, as added by [section 2(a)(2) of Pub. L. 102–560](/us/pl/102/560/s2/a/2), see the Table of Laws Held Unconstitutional in Whole or in Part by the Supreme Court on the Constitution Annotated website, constitution.congress.gov.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective with respect to violations that occur on or after Oct. 28, 1992, see [section 4 of Pub. L. 102–560](/us/pl/102/560/s4), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 2541 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s2541), Agriculture.
