---
title: "§ 21023. Requirements for eligibility"
identifier: "USC-T52-S21023"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title52-section21023"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "52"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 263](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s263), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/116/1698).)"
---
# § 21023. Requirements for eligibility

##### § 21023. Requirements for eligibility

(a) Application Each State or unit of local government that desires to receive a payment under this subpart for a fiscal year shall submit an application for the payment to the Secretary at such time and in such manner and containing such information as the Secretary shall require.

(b) Contents of application Each application submitted under subsection (a) shall—

(1) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

(2) provide such additional information and certifications as the Secretary determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(c) Protection against actions based on information in application

(1) In general No action may be brought under this chapter against a State or unit of local government on the basis of any information contained in the application submitted under subsection (a).

(2) Exception for criminal acts Paragraph (1) may not be construed to limit the liability of a State or unit of local government for criminal acts or omissions.

*([Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 263](/us/pl/107/252/tII/s263), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1698](/us/stat/116/1698).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 107–252](/us/pl/107/252), Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1666](/us/stat/116/1666), known as the Help America Vote Act of 2002, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 15423 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s15423), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
