---
title: "§ 3114. Submission of covered documents and classified annexes"
identifier: "USC-T50-S3114"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3114"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 515, as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXIII, § 6316(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXIII/s6316/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3513](/us/stat/136/3513).)"
---
# § 3114. Submission of covered documents and classified annexes

##### § 3114. Submission of covered documents and classified annexes

(a) Covered document defined In this section, the term “covered document” means any executive order, memorandum, or policy directive issued by the President, including national security Presidential memoranda and Presidential policy directives, or such successor memoranda and directives.

(b) Requirement Not later than 7 days after the date on which the President issues or amends a covered document, the President, acting through the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives the covered document and any classified annex accompanying that document if such covered document or annex contains a direction to, establishes a requirement for, or includes a restriction on any element of the intelligence community.

*([July 26, 1947, ch. 343](/us/act/1947-07-26/ch343), title V, § 515, as added [Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXIII, § 6316(a)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXIII/s6316/a), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3513](/us/stat/136/3513).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Initial Submission

[Pub. L. 117–263, div. F, title LXIII, § 6316(b)](/us/pl/117/263/dF/tLXIII/s6316/b), Dec. 23, 2022, [136 Stat. 3513](/us/stat/136/3513), provided that: “Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives each covered document and classified annex required under section 515 of the National Security Act of 1947 [[50 U.S.C. 3114](/us/usc/t50/s3114)], as added by subsection (a), in effect as of the date of enactment of this Act.”

[For definition of “congressional intelligence committees” as used in [section 6316(b) of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6316/b), set out above, see [section 6002 of Pub. L. 117–263](/us/pl/117/263/s6002), set out as a note under [section 3003 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s3003).]
