---
title: "§ 6551. References"
identifier: "USC-T22-S6551"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section6551"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIII, § 1331, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–785](/us/stat/112/2681-785).)"
---
# § 6551. References

##### § 6551. References

(a) In general Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any reference in any statute, reorganization plan, Executive order, regulation, agreement, determination, or other official document or proceeding to—

(1) the Director of the United States Information Agency or the Director of the International Communication Agency shall be deemed to refer to the Secretary of State; and

(2) the United States Information Agency, USIA, or the International Communication Agency shall be deemed to refer to the Department of State.

(b) Continuing references to USIA or Director Subsection (a) shall not apply to section 4069a(f), 4069b(g), or 4069c(f) of this title.

*([Pub. L. 105–277, div. G](/us/pl/105/277/dG), subdiv. A, title XIII, § 1331, Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–785](/us/stat/112/2681-785).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this subdivision”, meaning subdiv. A of div. G of [Pub. L. 105–277](/us/pl/105/277), Oct. 21, 1998, [112 Stat. 2681–765](/us/stat/112/2681-765), known as the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998. For complete classification of this subdivision to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 6501 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s6501) and Tables.

Section 4069a(f), 4069b(g), or 4069c(f) of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original “section 146(a), (b), or (c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991” meaning section 146(a), (b), (c) of [Pub. L. 101–246, title I](/us/pl/101/246/tI), Feb. 16, 1990, [104 Stat. 37](/us/stat/104/37), which amended sections 830, 831, and 832, respectively, of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, by adding subsecs. (f), (g), and (f), respectively, to those sections which are classified to sections 4069a(f), 4069b(g), and 4069c(f) of this title.
