---
title: "§ 539m–9. Construction"
identifier: "USC-T16-S539m–9"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section539m–9"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title IV, § 411](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tIV/s411), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 291](/us/stat/117/291).)"
---
# § 539m–9. Construction

##### § 539m–9. Construction

(a) Strict construction Sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title recognize only enumerated rights and interests, and no additional rights, interests, obligations, or duties shall be created by implication.

(b) Existing rights To the extent there exist within the Area as of February 20, 2003, any valid private property rights associated with private land that are not otherwise addressed in sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title, such rights are not modified or otherwise affected by sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title, nor is the exercise of any such right subject to the Pueblo’s right to withhold consent to new uses in the Area as set forth in [section 539m–3(a)(3)(A) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s539m–3/a/3/A).

(c) Not precedent The provisions of sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title creating certain rights and interests in the National Forest System are uniquely suited to resolve the Pueblo’s claim and the geographic and societal situation involved, and shall not be construed as precedent for any other situation involving management of the National Forest System.

(d) Fish and wildlife Except as provided in [section 539m–6(b)(2)(B) of this title](/us/usc/t16/s539m–6/b/2/B), nothing in sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title shall be construed as affecting the responsibilities of the State of New Mexico with respect to fish and wildlife, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, or trapping within the Area.

*([Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title IV, § 411](/us/pl/108/7/dF/tIV/s411), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 291](/us/stat/117/291).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title IV of div. F of [Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7), Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 279](/us/stat/117/279), which is classified generally to sections 539m to 539m–12 of this title. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 539m of this title](/us/usc/t16/s539m) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 411 of div. F of Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7/dF/s411). Subsec. (e) of [section 411 of div. F of Pub. L. 108–7](/us/pl/108/7/dF/s411) amended [section 1746 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1746), Public Lands.
