---
title: "§ 10361. Grant authorization"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10361"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10361"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1601](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1601), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3404](/us/stat/106/3404).)"
---
# § 10361. Grant authorization

##### § 10361. Grant authorization

(a) In general The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may make grants under this subchapter to States, for the use by States, and local entities in the States to develop, implement, and enforce criminal interstate child support legislation and coordinate criminal interstate child support enforcement efforts.

(b) Uses of funds Funds distributed under this subchapter shall be used to—

(1) develop a comprehensive assessment of existing criminal interstate child support enforcement efforts, including the identification of gaps in, and barriers to, the enforcement of such efforts;

(2) plan and implement comprehensive long-range strategies for criminal interstate child support enforcement;

(3) reach an agreement within the State regarding the priorities of such State in the enforcement of criminal interstate child support legislation;

(4) develop a plan to implement such priorities; and

(5) coordinate criminal interstate child support enforcement efforts.

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1601](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1601), as added [Pub. L. 102–521, § 4(a)(3)](/us/pl/102/521/s4/a/3), Oct. 25, 1992, [106 Stat. 3404](/us/stat/106/3404).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796cc of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796cc), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Another [section 1601 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1601), title XI, June 19, 1968, [82 Stat. 239](/us/stat/82/239), is set out as a note under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 1601 of Pub. L. 90–351](/us/pl/90/351/s1601) was renumbered section 2601 and is classified to [section 10541 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10541).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Transfer of Functions

Effective Aug. 1, 2000, all functions of Director of Bureau of Justice Assistance, other than those enumerated in section 10142(3) to (6) of this title, transferred to Assistant Attorney General for Office of Justice Programs, see section 1000(a)(1) [title I, § 108(b)] of [Pub. L. 106–113](/us/pl/106/113), set out as a note under [section 10141 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10141).
