---
title: "§ 2454. Model Indian Juvenile Code"
identifier: "USC-T25-S2454"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section2454"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4221](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4221), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–147](/us/stat/100/3207-147).)"
---
# § 2454. Model Indian Juvenile Code

##### § 2454. Model Indian Juvenile Code

The Secretary of the Interior, either directly or by contract, shall provide for the development of a Model Indian Juvenile Code which shall be consistent with the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 [[34 U.S.C. 11101](/us/usc/t34/s11101) et seq.] and which shall include provisions relating to the disposition of cases involving Indian youth arrested or detained by Bureau of Indian Affairs or tribal law enforcement personnel for alcohol or drug related offenses. The development of such model code 11 So in original. Probably should be “Model Code”. shall be accomplished in cooperation with Indian organizations having an expertise or knowledge in the field of law enforcement and judicial procedure and in consultation with Indian tribes. Upon completion of the Model Code, the Secretary shall make copies available to each Indian tribe.

*([Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4221](/us/pl/99/570/tIV/s4221), Oct. 27, 1986, [100 Stat. 3207–147](/us/stat/100/3207-147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 93–415](/us/pl/93/415), Sept. 7, 1974, [88 Stat. 1109](/us/stat/88/1109), which is classified principally to chapter 111 (§ 11101 et seq.) of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1974 Act note set out under [section 10101 of Title 34](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.
