---
title: "§ 8471. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S8471"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section8471"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 201](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s201), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2880](/us/stat/138/2880).)"
---
# § 8471. Definitions

##### § 8471. Definitions

(1) Accessible trail The term “accessible trail” means a trail that meets the requirements for a trail under the Architectural Barriers Act accessibility guidelines.

(2) Architectural Barriers Act accessibility guidelines The term “Architectural Barriers Act accessibility guidelines” means the accessibility guidelines set forth in appendices C and D to part 1191 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

(3) Assistive technology The term “assistive technology” means any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities, particularly with participating in outdoor recreation activities.

(4) Gold Star Family member The term “Gold Star Family member” means an individual described in section 3.3 of Department of Defense Instruction 1348.36.

(5) Outdoor constructed feature The term “outdoor constructed feature” has the meaning given such term in appendix C to part 1191 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

(6) Veterans organization The term “veterans organization” means a service provider with outdoor recreation experience that serves members of the Armed Forces, veterans, or Gold Star Family members.

*([Pub. L. 118–234, title II, § 201](/us/pl/118/234/tII/s201), Jan. 4, 2025, [138 Stat. 2880](/us/stat/138/2880).)*
