---
title: "§ 9012. Department of the Air Force: seal"
identifier: "USC-T10-S9012"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section9012"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 488](/us/stat/70A/488), § 8011; renumbered § 8012, [Pub. L. 99–433, title V, § 521(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/433/tV/s521/a/1), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1055](/us/stat/100/1055); renumbered § 9012, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(c)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/c), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)"
---
# § 9012. Department of the Air Force: seal

##### § 9012. Department of the Air Force: seal

The Secretary of the Air Force shall have a seal for the Department of the Air Force. The design of the seal must be approved by the President. Judicial notice shall be taken of the seal.

*([Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041](/us/act/1956-08-10/ch1041), [70A Stat. 488](/us/stat/70A/488), § 8011; renumbered § 8012, [Pub. L. 99–433, title V, § 521(a)(1)](/us/pl/99/433/tV/s521/a/1), Oct. 1, 1986, [100 Stat. 1055](/us/stat/100/1055); renumbered § 9012, [Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, § 806(c)](/us/pl/115/232/dA/tVIII/s806/c), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 1833](/us/stat/132/1833).)*

The words “of office” are omitted as surplusage. The words “a design” are substituted for the words “such device”.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8011 | 5:626(g). | July 26, 1947, ch. 343, § 207(g), 61 Stat 503. |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) renumbered [section 8012 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8012) as this section.

1986—[Pub. L. 99–433](/us/pl/99/433) renumbered [section 8011 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8011) as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see [section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232/s800), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Ex. Ord. No. 9902. Seal for the Department of the Air Force

Ex. Ord. No. 9902, Nov. 1, 1947, 12 F.R. 7153, provided:

WHEREAS section 207(g) of the National Security Act of 1947, approved July 26, 1947 (Public Law 253, 80th Congress 1st Session) provides, in part, that the Secretary of the Air Force shall cause a seal of office to be made for the Department of the Air Force of such device as the President shall approve; and

WHEREAS the Secretary of the Air Force has caused to be made and has recommended that I approve a seal the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order, and which is described in heraldic terms as follows:

SHIELD: Per fess nebuly abased azure and argent, in chief a thunderbolt or inflamed proper.

CREST: On a wreath argent and azure an American bald eagle, wings displayed and partially elevated proper in front of a cloud argent.

Encircling the shield and crest an arc of thirteen stars and below the shield the inscription “MCMXLVII”.

On a band encircling the whole the inscriptions “Department of the Air Force” and “United States of America.”

When illustrating the seal in color the background shall be ultramarine blue, the shield a light blue and white, and the thunderbolt in gold with flames in natural color. The twists of the wreath shall be alternated white and blue, and the eagle shall be in natural color in front of a white cloud. The thirteen stars shall be white, and the Roman numerals shall be gold. The encircling band shall be white edged in gold with black letters.

AND WHEREAS it appears that such seal is of suitable design and is appropriate for establishment as the official seal of the Department of the Air Force:

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the said section 207(g) of the National Security Act of 1947, I hereby approve such seal as the official seal of the Department of the Air Force.
