---
title: "§ 10389. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T34-S10389"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section10389"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1709](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1709), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/108/1813); amended [Pub. L. 105–302, § 1(2)](/us/pl/105/302/s1/2), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2841](/us/stat/112/2841); [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 601(2)](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s601/2), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 259](/us/stat/129/259).)"
---
# § 10389. Definitions

##### § 10389. Definitions

(1) “career law enforcement officer” means a person hired on a permanent basis who is authorized by law or by a State or local public agency to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, or investigation of violations of criminal laws.

(2) “citizens’ police academy” means a program by local law enforcement agencies or private nonprofit organizations in which citizens, especially those who participate in neighborhood watch programs, are trained in ways of facilitating communication between the community and local law enforcement in the prevention of crime.

(3) “Indian tribe” means a tribe, band, pueblo, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including an Alaska Native village (as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ([43 U.S.C. 1601](/us/usc/t43/s1601) et seq.)), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(4) “school resource officer” means a career law enforcement officer, with sworn authority, deployed in community-oriented policing, and assigned by the employing police department or agency to work in collaboration with schools and community-based organizations—

(A) to address crime and disorder problems, gangs, and drug activities affecting or occurring in or around an elementary or secondary school;

(B) to develop or expand crime prevention efforts for students;

(C) to educate likely school-age victims in crime prevention and safety;

(D) to develop or expand community justice initiatives for students;

(E) to train students in conflict resolution, restorative justice, and crime awareness;

(F) to assist in the identification of physical changes in the environment that may reduce crime in or around the school; and

(G) to assist in developing school policy that addresses crime and to recommend procedural changes.

(5) “commercial sex act” has the meaning given the term in [section 7102 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102).

(6) “minor” means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.

(7) “severe form of trafficking in persons” has the meaning given the term in [section 7102 of title 22](/us/usc/t22/s7102).

*([Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1709](/us/pl/90/351/tI/s1709), as added [Pub. L. 103–322, title I, § 10003(a)(3)](/us/pl/103/322/tI/s10003/a/3), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1813](/us/stat/108/1813); amended [Pub. L. 105–302, § 1(2)](/us/pl/105/302/s1/2), Oct. 27, 1998, [112 Stat. 2841](/us/stat/112/2841); [Pub. L. 114–22, title VI, § 601(2)](/us/pl/114/22/tVI/s601/2), May 29, 2015, [129 Stat. 259](/us/stat/129/259).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in par. (3), is [Pub. L. 92–203, § 2](/us/pl/92/203/s2), Dec. 18, 1971, [85 Stat. 688](/us/stat/85/688), which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1601 of Title 43](/us/usc/t43/s1601) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 3796dd–8 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s3796dd–8), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### Amendments

2015—[Pub. L. 114–22](/us/pl/114/22) added pars. (5) to (7).

1998—[Pub. L. 105–302](/us/pl/105/302) designated first three undesignated paragraphs as pars. (1) to (3), respectively, and added par. (4).
