---
title: "§ 3323. Cost-plus contracting prohibited for military construction and military family housing projects"
identifier: "USC-T10-S3323"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section3323"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1817(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1817/a), (g), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4186](/us/stat/134/4186), 4187; [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(27)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVIII/s1801/a/27), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 684](/us/stat/137/684).)"
---
# § 3323. Cost-plus contracting prohibited for military construction and military family housing projects

##### § 3323. Cost-plus contracting prohibited for military construction and military family housing projects

(a) Prohibition.— A contract entered into by the United States in connection with a military construction project or a military family housing project may not use any form of cost-plus contracting.

(b) Applicability.— The prohibition specified in subsection (a)—

(1) is in addition to the prohibition specified in [section 3322(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3322/a) on the use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting; and

(2) applies notwithstanding a declaration of war or the declaration by the President of a national emergency under section 201 of the National Emergencies Act ([50 U.S.C. 1621](/us/usc/t50/s1621)) that includes the use of the armed forces.

*(Added and amended [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1817(a)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1817/a), (g), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4186](/us/stat/134/4186), 4187; [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(27)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVIII/s1801/a/27), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 684](/us/stat/137/684).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

The text of subsec. (c) of [section 2306 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2306), which was transferred to this section and amended by [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1817(g)](/us/pl/116/283/s1817/g), was based on [Pub. L. 112–81, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2801(a)](/us/pl/112/81/dB/tXXVIII/s2801/a), Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1684](/us/stat/125/1684).

#### Amendments

2023—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31) struck out period after “notwithstanding”.

2021—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1817(g)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1817/g/1), (2), redesignated subsec. (c) of [section 2306 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2306) as subsec. (a) of this section and inserted heading. Former second sentence of subsec. (a) designated subsec. (b).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–283, § 1817(g)(1)](/us/pl/116/283/s1817/g/1), (3), designated second sentence of subsec. (a) as subsec. (b), inserted heading, and substituted “The prohibition specified in subsection (a)—

“(1) is in addition to the prohibition specified in [section 3322(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3322/a) on the use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting; and

“(2) applies notwithstanding. a declaration”

for “This prohibition is in addition to the prohibition specified in subsection (a) on the use of the cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost system of contracting and applies notwithstanding a declaration”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section and amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
