---
title: "§ 1809. Criminal sanctions"
identifier: "USC-T50-S1809"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section1809"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–511, title I, § 109](/us/pl/95/511/tI/s109), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/92/1796); [Pub. L. 110–261, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/110/261/tI/s102/b), July 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 2459](/us/stat/122/2459); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 801(3)](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s801/3), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2746](/us/stat/124/2746); [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a), (b), Apr. 20, 2024, [138 Stat. 881](/us/stat/138/881).)"
---
# § 1809. Criminal sanctions

##### § 1809. Criminal sanctions

(a) Prohibited activities A person is guilty of an offense if he—

(1) intentionally engages in electronic surveillance under color of law except as authorized by this chapter, chapter 119, 121, or 206 of title 18, or any express statutory authorization that is an additional exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance under [section 1812 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1812);

(2) intentionally discloses or uses information obtained under color of law by electronic surveillance, knowing or having reason to know that the information was obtained through electronic surveillance not authorized by this chapter, chapter 119, 121, or 206 of title 18, or any express statutory authorization that is an additional exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance under [section 1812 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1812); or

(3) knowingly and willfully communicates, furnishes, transmits, or otherwise makes available to an unauthorized person, or publishes, or uses in any manner prejudicial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government to the detriment of the United States an application, in whole or in part, for an order for electronic surveillance under this chapter.

(b) Defense It is a defense to a prosecution under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) that the defendant was a law enforcement or investigative officer engaged in the course of his official duties and the electronic surveillance was authorized by and conducted pursuant to a search warrant or court order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

(c) Penalty A person guilty of an offense in this section shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.

(d) Federal jurisdiction There is Federal jurisdiction over an offense under this section if the person committing the offense was an officer or employee of the United States at the time the offense was committed.

*([Pub. L. 95–511, title I, § 109](/us/pl/95/511/tI/s109), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/92/1796); [Pub. L. 110–261, title I, § 102(b)](/us/pl/110/261/tI/s102/b), July 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 2459](/us/stat/122/2459); [Pub. L. 111–259, title VIII, § 801(3)](/us/pl/111/259/tVIII/s801/3), Oct. 7, 2010, [124 Stat. 2746](/us/stat/124/2746); [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a), (b), Apr. 20, 2024, [138 Stat. 881](/us/stat/138/881).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 95–511](/us/pl/95/511), Oct. 25, 1978, [92 Stat. 1783](/us/stat/92/1783), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801) and Tables.

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(1)(A)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/1/A), struck out “intentionally” after “if he” in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(1)(B)(ii)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/1/B/ii), which directed the substitution of a semicolon for “; or”, could not be exected because the word “or” did not appear.

[Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(1)(B)(i)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/1/B/i), inserted “intentionally” before “engages in”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(1)(C)(i)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/1/C/i), which directed the substitution of “intentionally discloses” for “disclose”, was executed by making the substitution for “discloses” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (a)(3). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(1)(C)(ii)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/1/C/ii), (D), added par. (3).

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(a)(2)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/a/2), substituted “under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a)” for “under subsection (a)”.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 118–49, § 13(b)](/us/pl/118/49/s13/b), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: “An offense described in this section is punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.”

2010—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 801(3)(A)](/us/pl/111/259/s801/3/A), substituted “[section 1812 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1812);” for “[section 1812 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1812).;”.

Subsec. (a)(2). [Pub. L. 111–259, § 801(3)(B)](/us/pl/111/259/s801/3/B), substituted “title.” for “title..”

2008—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261) substituted “authorized by this chapter, chapter 119, 121, or 206 of title 18, or any express statutory authorization that is an additional exclusive means for conducting electronic surveillance under [section 1812 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1812).” for “authorized by statute” in pars. (1) and (2).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261) effective July 10, 2008, except as provided in [section 404 of Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261/s404), set out as a Transition Procedures note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801), see [section 402 of Pub. L. 110–261](/us/pl/110/261/s402), set out as an Effective Date of 2008 Amendment note under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s1801).
