---
title: "§ 7102. Employees’ rights"
identifier: "USC-T5-S7102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title5-section7102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "5"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1192](/us/stat/92/1192).)"
---
# § 7102. Employees’ rights

##### § 7102. Employees’ rights

(1) to act for a labor organization in the capacity of a representative and the right, in that capacity, to present the views of the labor organization to heads of agencies and other officials of the executive branch of the Government, the Congress, or other appropriate authorities, and

(2) to engage in collective bargaining with respect to conditions of employment through representatives chosen by employees under this chapter.

*(Added [Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, § 701](/us/pl/95/454/tVII/s701), Oct. 13, 1978, [92 Stat. 1192](/us/stat/92/1192).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 7102, [Pub. L. 89–554](/us/pl/89/554), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 523](/us/stat/80/523), related to right of employees to petition Congress, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by [Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454). See [section 7211 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7211).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective 90 days after Oct. 13, 1978, see [section 907 of Pub. L. 95–454](/us/pl/95/454/s907), set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under [section 1101 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s1101).

#### Partial Suspension of Federal Service Labor-Management Relations

Par. (2) of this section suspended with respect to any matter proposed for bargaining which would substantially impair the implementation by the United States Forces of any treaty or agreement, including any minutes or understandings thereto, between the United States and the Government of the host nation, see section 1(b) of Ex. Ord. No. 12391, Nov. 4, 1982, 47 F.R. 50457, set out as a note under [section 7103 of this title](/us/usc/t5/s7103).
