---
title: "§ 1856e. Reimbursement of fire funds"
identifier: "USC-T42-S1856e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section1856e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–79, title VIII, § 8304](/us/pl/113/79/tVIII/s8304), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 924](/us/stat/128/924).)"
---
# § 1856e. Reimbursement of fire funds

##### § 1856e. Reimbursement of fire funds

(a) Definition of State In this section, the term “State” means—

(1) a State; and

(2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(b) In general If a State seeks reimbursement for amounts expended for resources and services provided to another State for the management and suppression of a wildfire, the Secretary, subject to subsections (c) and (d)—

(1) may accept the reimbursement amounts from the other State; and

(2) shall pay those amounts to the State seeking reimbursement.

(c) Mutual assistance agreement As a condition of seeking and providing reimbursement under subsection (b), the State seeking reimbursement and the State providing reimbursement must each have a mutual assistance agreement with the Forest Service or another Federal agency for providing and receiving wildfire management and suppression resources and services.

(d) Terms and conditions The Secretary may prescribe the terms and conditions determined to be necessary to carry out subsection (b).

(e) Effect on prior reimbursements Any acceptance of funds or reimbursements made by the Secretary before February 7, 2014, that otherwise would have been authorized under this section shall be considered to have been made in accordance with this section.

*([Pub. L. 113–79, title VIII, § 8304](/us/pl/113/79/tVIII/s8304), Feb. 7, 2014, [128 Stat. 924](/us/stat/128/924).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 2014, and not as part of act May 27, 1955, which comprises this subchapter.

Section is comprised of [section 8304 of Pub. L. 113–79](/us/pl/113/79/s8304). Subsec. (f) of [section 8304 of Pub. L. 113–79](/us/pl/113/79/s8304) amended [section 1856d of this title](/us/usc/t42/s1856d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition of “Secretary”

“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, see [section 9001 of Title 7](/us/usc/t7/s9001), Agriculture.
