---
title: "§ 102302. National Capital region arts and cultural affairs"
identifier: "USC-T54-S102302"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title54-section102302"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "54"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3154](/us/stat/128/3154).)"
---
# § 102302. National Capital region arts and cultural affairs

##### § 102302. National Capital region arts and cultural affairs

(a) Establishment.— There is under the direction of the Service a program to support and enhance artistic and cultural activities in the National Capital region.

(b) Grant Eligibility.—

(1) Eligible organizations.— Eligibility for grants shall be limited to organizations—

(A) that are of demonstrated national significance; and

(B) that meet at least 2 of the criteria stated in paragraph (2).

(2) Criteria.— The criteria referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:

(A) The organization has an annual operating budget in excess of $1,000,000.

(B) The organization has an annual audience or visitation of at least 200,000 people.

(C) The organization has a paid staff of at least 100 individuals.

(D) The organization is eligible under [section 320102(f) of this title](/us/usc/t54/s320102/f).

(3) Organizations not eligible.— Public or private colleges and universities are not eligible for grants under the program under this section.

(c) Use of Grants.— Grants awarded under this section may be used to support general operations and maintenance, security, or special projects. No organization may receive a grant in excess of $500,000 in a single year.

(d) Responsbilities11 So in original. Probably should be “Responsibilities”.of Director.— The Director shall—

(1) establish an application process;

(2) appoint a review panel of 5 qualified individuals, at least a majority of whom reside in the National Capital region; and

(3) develop other program guidelines and definitions as required.

(e) Ford’s Theater and Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts.— The contractual amounts required for the support of Ford’s Theater and Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts shall be available within the amount provided in this section without regard to any other provision of this section.

*([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3](/us/pl/113/287/s3), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3154](/us/stat/128/3154).)*

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 102302 | 16 U.S.C. 1e. | Pub. L. 98–473, title I, § 101(c) [title I, § 100], Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 1837, 1844; Pub. L. 89–671, § 14(c), as added Pub. L. 107–219, § 1(a)(3), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 10330.) |
