---
title: "§ 1665k. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders programs"
identifier: "USC-T25-S1665k"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section1665k"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s712), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)"
---
# § 1665k. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders programs

##### § 1665k. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders programs

(a) Programs

(1) Establishment The Secretary, consistent with [section 1665a of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1665a), acting through the Service, Indian Tribes, and Tribal Organizations, is authorized to establish and operate fetal alcohol spectrum disorders programs as provided in this section for the purposes of meeting the health status objectives specified in [section 1602 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1602).

(2) Use of funds

(A) In general Funding provided pursuant to this section shall be used for the following:

(i) To develop and provide for Indians community and in-school training, education, and prevention programs relating to fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

(ii) To identify and provide behavioral health treatment to high-risk Indian women and high-risk women pregnant with an Indian’s child.

(iii) To identify and provide appropriate psychological services, educational and vocational support, counseling, advocacy, and information to fetal alcohol spectrum disorders-affected Indians and their families or caretakers.

(iv) To develop and implement counseling and support programs in schools for fetal alcohol spectrum disorders-affected Indian children.

(v) To develop prevention and intervention models which incorporate practitioners of traditional health care practices, cultural values, and community involvement.

(vi) To develop, print, and disseminate education and prevention materials on fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

(vii) To develop and implement, in consultation with Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations, and in conference with urban Indian Organizations, culturally sensitive assessment and diagnostic tools including dysmorphology clinics and multidisciplinary fetal alcohol spectrum disorders clinics for use in Indian communities and urban Centers.

(viii) To develop and provide training on fetal alcohol spectrum disorders to professionals providing services to Indians, including medical and allied health practitioners, social service providers, educators, and law enforcement, court officials and corrections personnel in the juvenile and criminal justice systems.

(B) Additional uses In addition to any purpose under subparagraph (A), funding provided pursuant to this section may be used for 1 or more of the following:

(i) Early childhood intervention projects from birth on to mitigate the effects of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders among Indians.

(ii) Community-based support services for Indians and women pregnant with Indian children.

(iii) Community-based housing for adult Indians with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

(3) Criteria for applications The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval of applications for funding under this section.

(b) Services The Secretary, acting through the Service, Indian Tribes, and Tribal Organizations, shall—

(1) develop and provide services for the prevention, intervention, treatment, and aftercare for those affected by fetal alcohol spectrum disorders in Indian communities; and

(2) provide supportive services, including services to meet the special educational, vocational, school-to-work transition, and independent living needs of adolescent and adult Indians with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

(c) Applied research projects The Secretary, acting through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, shall make grants to Indian Tribes, Tribal Organizations, and urban Indian Organizations for applied research projects which propose to elevate the understanding of methods to prevent, intervene, treat, or provide rehabilitation and behavioral health aftercare for Indians and urban Indians affected by fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

(d) Funding for urban Indian organizations Ten percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall be used to make grants to urban Indian Organizations funded under subchapter IV.

*([Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s712), as added [Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a)](/us/pl/111/148/tX/s10221/a), Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 935](/us/stat/124/935).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

[Section 712 of Pub. L. 94–437](/us/pl/94/437/s712) is based on section 181 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by [section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148/s10221/a).

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1665k, [Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, § 712](/us/pl/94/437/tVII/s712), as added [Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, § 702(a)](/us/pl/102/573/tVII/s702/a), Oct. 29, 1992, [106 Stat. 4581](/us/stat/106/4581), provided for establishment of the Gila River alcohol and substance abuse treatment facility, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 111–148](/us/pl/111/148).
