---
title: "§ 18505. Reserves traveling for inactive-duty training: space-required travel on military aircraft"
identifier: "USC-T10-S18505"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section18505"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 517(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s517/a/1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 594](/us/stat/113/594); amended [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 384(a), (b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–87; [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, § 518](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tV/s518), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/115/1096).)"
---
# § 18505. Reserves traveling for inactive-duty training: space-required travel on military aircraft

##### § 18505. Reserves traveling for inactive-duty training: space-required travel on military aircraft

(a) A member of a reserve component traveling for inactive-duty training (including a place other than the place of the member’s unit training assembly if the member is performing inactive-duty training in another location) may travel in a space-required status on aircraft of the armed forces between the member’s home and the place of the inactive-duty training.

(b) A member traveling in a space-required status on any such aircraft under subsection (a) is not authorized to receive travel, transportation, or per diem allowances in connection with that travel.

*(Added [Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 517(a)(1)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s517/a/1), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 594](/us/stat/113/594); amended [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 384(a), (b)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, [114 Stat. 1654](/us/stat/114/1654), 1654A–87; [Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, § 518](/us/pl/107/107/dA/tV/s518), Dec. 28, 2001, [115 Stat. 1096](/us/stat/115/1096).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2001—[Pub. L. 107–107, § 518(b)](/us/pl/107/107/s518/b), struck out “annual training duty or” before “inactive-duty training:” in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 107–107, § 518(a)](/us/pl/107/107/s518/a), struck out “annual training duty or” before “inactive-duty training” wherever appearing.

2000—[Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 384(b)(1)], substituted “Reserves traveling for annual training duty or inactive-duty training: space-required travel on military aircraft” for “Reserves traveling to inactive-duty training OCONUS: authority for space-required travel” as section catchline.

Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A]](/us/pl/106/398/s1/dA), title III, § 384(a)], amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “In the case of a member of a reserve component whose place of inactive-duty training is outside the contiguous States (including a place other than the place of the member’s unit training assembly if the member is performing the inactive-duty training in another location), the member may travel in a space-required status on aircraft of the armed forces between the member’s home and the place of such training if there is no transportation between those locations by means of road or railroad (or a combination of road and railroad).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 517(c)](/us/pl/106/65/dA/tV/s517/c), Oct. 5, 1999, [113 Stat. 595](/us/stat/113/595), provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall apply with respect to travel commencing on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1999].”
