---
title: "§ 1293. Intercollegiate and interscholastic football contest limitations"
identifier: "USC-T15-S1293"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section1293"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–331, § 3](/us/pl/87/331/s3), Sept. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 732](/us/stat/75/732); [Pub. L. 89–800, § 6(b)(3)](/us/pl/89/800/s6/b/3), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1515](/us/stat/80/1515).)"
---
# § 1293. Intercollegiate and interscholastic football contest limitations

##### § 1293. Intercollegiate and interscholastic football contest limitations

(1) such intercollegiate football contest is between institutions of higher learning both of which confer degrees upon students following completion of sufficient credit hours to equal a four-year course, or

(2) in the case of an interscholastic football contest, such contest is between secondary schools, both of which are accredited or certified under the laws of the State or States in which they are situated and offer courses continuing through the twelfth grade of the standard school curriculum, or the equivalent, and

(3) such intercollegiate or interscholastic football contest and such game site were announced through publication in a newspaper of general circulation prior to August 1 of such year as being regularly scheduled for such day and place.

*([Pub. L. 87–331, § 3](/us/pl/87/331/s3), Sept. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 732](/us/stat/75/732); [Pub. L. 89–800, § 6(b)(3)](/us/pl/89/800/s6/b/3), Nov. 8, 1966, [80 Stat. 1515](/us/stat/80/1515).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1966—[Pub. L. 89–800](/us/pl/89/800) substituted “The first sentence of [section 1291 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1291)” for “[Section 1291 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s1291)” at beginning of section, extended limitation granted for football contests on game sites located within 75 miles of telecasting stations to include interscholastic contests, redesignated cl. (2) as (3), added a new cl. (2), and, in cl. (3) as so redesignated, substituted “newspaper of general circulation prior to August 1” for “daily newspaper of general circulation prior to March 1” as description of the type newspaper required for the announcement of the game site of intercollegiate or interscholastic football games.
