---
title: "§ 1171. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1171"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1171"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/124/2948), § 581; amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 209(8)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s209/8), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 41](/us/stat/130/41); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(F)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/F), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/130/2334); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/8), Aug. 13, 2018, ["
---
# § 1171. Definitions

##### § 1171. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.— The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(2) Chief acquisition officer.— The term “Chief Acquisition Officer” means the officer appointed under [section 308 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s308).

(3) Customer of a major acquisition program.— The term “customer of a major acquisition program” means the operating field unit of the Coast Guard that will field the system or systems acquired under a major acquisition program.

(4) Level 1 acquisition.— The term “Level 1 acquisition” means—

(A) an acquisition by the Coast Guard—

(i) the estimated life-cycle costs of which exceed $1,000,000,000; or

(ii) the estimated total acquisition costs of which exceed $300,000,000; or

(B) any acquisition that the Chief Acquisition Officer of the Coast Guard determines to have a special interest—

(i) due to—

(I) the experimental or technically immature nature of the asset;

(II) the technological complexity of the asset;

(III) the commitment of resources; or

(IV) the nature of the capability or set of capabilities to be achieved; or

(ii) because such acquisition is a joint acquisition.

(5) Level 2 acquisition.— The term “Level 2 acquisition” means an acquisition by the Coast Guard—

(A) the estimated life-cycle costs of which are equal to or less than $1,000,000,000, but greater than $300,000,000; or

(B) the estimated total acquisition costs of which are equal to or less than $300,000,000, but greater than $100,000,000.

(6) Life-cycle cost.— The term “life-cycle cost” means all costs for development, procurement, construction, and operations and support for a particular capability or asset, without regard to funding source or management control.

(7) Major acquisition program.— The term “major acquisition program” means an ongoing acquisition undertaken by the Coast Guard with a life-cycle cost estimate greater than or equal to $300,000,000.

(8) Project or program manager defined.— The term “project or program manager” means an individual designated—

(A) to develop, produce, and deploy a new asset to meet identified operational requirements; and

(B) to manage cost, schedule, and performance of the acquisition, project, or program.

(9) Safety concern.— The term “safety concern” means any hazard associated with a capability or asset or a subsystem of a capability or asset that is likely to cause serious bodily injury or death to a typical Coast Guard user in testing, maintaining, repairing, or operating the capability, asset, or subsystem or any hazard associated with the capability, asset, or subsystem that is likely to cause major damage to the capability, asset, or subsystem during the course of its normal operation by a typical Coast Guard user.

(10) Developmental test and evaluation.— The term “developmental test and evaluation” means—

(A) the testing of a capability or asset and the subsystems of the capability or asset to determine whether they meet all contractual performance requirements, including technical performance requirements, supportability requirements, and interoperability requirements and related specifications; and

(B) the evaluation of the results of such testing.

(11) Operational test and evaluation.— The term “operational test and evaluation” means—

(A) the testing of a capability or asset and the subsystems of the capability or asset, under conditions similar to those in which the capability or asset and subsystems will actually be deployed, for the purpose of determining the effectiveness and suitability of the capability or asset and subsystems for use by typical Coast Guard users to conduct those missions for which the capability or asset and subsystems are intended to be used; and

(B) the evaluation of the results of such testing.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2948](/us/stat/124/2948), § 581; amended [Pub. L. 114–120, title II, § 209(8)](/us/pl/114/120/tII/s209/8), Feb. 8, 2016, [130 Stat. 41](/us/stat/130/41); [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 899(b)(1)(F)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s899/b/1/F), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2334](/us/stat/130/2334); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3531(c)(8)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3531/c/8), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2320](/us/stat/132/2320); renumbered § 1171 and amended [Pub. L. 115–282, title I](/us/pl/115/282/tI), §§ 108(b), 123(b)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208), 4240.)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/s108/b), renumbered [section 581 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s581) as this section.

Par. (2). [Pub. L. 115–282, § 123(b)(2)](/us/pl/115/282/s123/b/2), substituted “section 308” for “section 56”.

Pars. (4) to (12). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) redesignated pars. (5) to (12) as (4) to (11), respectively, and struck out former par. (4) which defined “Commandant” as the Commandant of the Coast Guard.

2016—Par. (3). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 899(b)(1)(F)(ii)](/us/pl/114/328/s899/b/1/F/ii), added par. (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).

Pars. (4), (5). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 899(b)(1)(F)(i)](/us/pl/114/328/s899/b/1/F/i), redesignated pars. (3) and (4) as (4) and (5), respectively. Former par. (5) redesignated (6).

Par. (5)(B). [Pub. L. 114–120](/us/pl/114/120) substituted “$300,000,000,” for “$300,000,0000,”.

Pars. (6), (7). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 899(b)(1)(F)(i)](/us/pl/114/328/s899/b/1/F/i), redesignated pars. (5) and (6) as (6) and (7), respectively. Former par. (7) redesignated (9).

Par. (8). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 899(b)(1)(F)(iii)](/us/pl/114/328/s899/b/1/F/iii), added par. (8). Former par. (8) redesignated (10).

Pars. (9) to (12). [Pub. L. 114–328, § 899(b)(1)(F)(i)](/us/pl/114/328/s899/b/1/F/i), redesignated pars. (7) to (10) as (9) to (12), respectively.
