---
title: "§ 2053a. Employee training exchanges"
identifier: "USC-T15-S2053a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section2053a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–314, title II, § 208](/us/pl/110/314/tII/s208), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3046](/us/stat/122/3046); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(c)(25)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/c/25), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4357](/us/stat/136/4357).)"
---
# § 2053a. Employee training exchanges

##### § 2053a. Employee training exchanges

(a) In general The Commission may—

(1) retain or employ officers or employees of foreign government agencies on a temporary basis pursuant to [section 2053 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2053) or section 3101 or 3109 of title 5; and

(2) detail officers or employees of the Commission to work on a temporary basis for appropriate foreign government agencies for the purpose of providing or receiving training.

(b) Reciprocity and reimbursement The Commission may execute the authority contained in subsection (a) with or without reimbursement in money or in kind, and with or without reciprocal arrangements by or on behalf of the foreign government agency involved. Any amounts received as reimbursement for expenses incurred by the Commission under this section shall be credited to the appropriations account from which such expenses were paid.

(c) Standards of conduct An individual retained or employed under subsection (a)(1) shall be considered to be a Federal employee while so retained or employed, only for purposes of—

(1) injury compensation as provided in chapter 81 of title 5 and tort claims liability under chapter 171 of title 28;

(2) chapter 131 of title 5 and the provisions of chapter 11 of title 18; and

(3) any other statute or regulation governing the conduct of Federal employees.

*([Pub. L. 110–314, title II, § 208](/us/pl/110/314/tII/s208), Aug. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 3046](/us/stat/122/3046); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(c)(25)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/c/25), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4357](/us/stat/136/4357).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and not as part of the Consumer Product Safety Act which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “chapter 131 of title 5” for “the Ethics in Government Act (5 U.S.C. App.)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Definition

For definition of “Commission” used in this section, see [section 2(a) of Pub. L. 110–314](/us/pl/110/314/s2/a), set out as a note under [section 2051 of this title](/us/usc/t15/s2051).
