---
title: "§ 1135. Acquisition program baseline breach"
identifier: "USC-T14-S1135"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title14-section1135"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "14"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2947](/us/stat/124/2947), § 575; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533(g)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3533/g), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2321](/us/stat/132/2321); renumbered § 1135, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s108/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8221(b), J"
---
# § 1135. Acquisition program baseline breach

##### § 1135. Acquisition program baseline breach

(a) In General.— The Commandant shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives as soon as possible, but not later than 30 days, after the Chief Acquisition Officer of the Coast Guard becomes aware of the breach of an acquisition program baseline for any Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition program, by—

(1) a likely cost overrun greater than 15 percent of the acquisition program baseline for that individual capability or asset or a class of capabilities or assets;

(2) a likely delay of more than 180 days in the delivery schedule for any individual capability or asset or class of capabilities or assets; or

(3) an anticipated failure for any individual capability or asset or class of capabilities or assets to satisfy any key performance threshold or parameter under the acquisition program baseline.

(b) Content.— The report submitted under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) a detailed description of the breach and an explanation of its cause;

(2) the projected impact to performance, cost, and schedule;

(3) an updated acquisition program baseline and the complete history of changes to the original acquisition program baseline;

(4) the updated acquisition schedule and the complete history of changes to the original schedule;

(5) a full life-cycle cost analysis for the capability or asset or class of capabilities or assets;

(6) a remediation plan identifying corrective actions and any resulting issues or risks; and

(7) a description of how progress in the remediation plan will be measured and monitored.

(c) Substantial Variances in Costs or Schedule.— If a likely cost overrun is greater than 20 percent or a likely delay is greater than 12 months from the costs and schedule described in the acquisition program baseline for any Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition project or program of the Coast Guard, the Commandant shall include in the report a written determination, with a supporting explanation, of whether—

(1) the capability or asset or capability or asset class to be acquired under the project or program is essential to the accomplishment of Coast Guard missions;

(2) there are no alternatives to such capability or asset or capability or asset class that will provide equal or greater capability in both a more cost-effective and timely manner;

(3) the new acquisition schedule and estimates for total acquisition cost are reasonable; and

(4) the management structure for the acquisition program is adequate to manage and control performance, cost, and schedule.

(d) Notice to Congress With Respect to Breach of Contract.— Not later than 48 hours after the Commandant becomes aware that a major acquisition contract cannot be carried out under the terms specified in the contract, the Commandant shall provide a written notification to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that includes—

(1) a description of the terms of the contract that cannot be met; and

(2) an assessment of whether the applicable contract officer has issued a cease and desist order to the contractor based on the breach of such terms of the contract.

*(Added [Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/111/281/tIV/s402/a), Oct. 15, 2010, [124 Stat. 2947](/us/stat/124/2947), § 575; amended [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3533(g)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3533/g), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2321](/us/stat/132/2321); renumbered § 1135, [Pub. L. 115–282, title I, § 108(b)](/us/pl/115/282/tI/s108/b), Dec. 4, 2018, [132 Stat. 4208](/us/stat/132/4208); [Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII](/us/pl/116/283/dG/tLVXXXII) [LXXXII], § 8221(b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4657](/us/stat/134/4657).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2021—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) added subsec. (d).

2018—[Pub. L. 115–282](/us/pl/115/282) renumbered [section 575 of this title](/us/usc/t14/s575) as this section.

Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232), in introductory provisions, substituted “determination, with a supporting explanation, of whether” for “certification, with a supporting explanation, that”.
