---
title: "§ 560. Reports and investigations"
identifier: "USC-T29-S560"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title29-section560"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "29"
source_credit: "([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, § 9](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141/s9), [37 Stat. 738](/us/stat/37/738); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1102(c)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1102/c), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 723](/us/stat/109/723).)"
---
# § 560. Reports and investigations

##### § 560. Reports and investigations

The Secretary of Labor shall annually, at the close of each fiscal year, prepare and submit to Congress the financial statements of the Department that have been audited. He shall also, from time to time, make such special investigations and reports as he may be required to do by the President, or by Congress, or which he himself may deem necessary.

*([Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, § 9](/us/act/1913-03-04/ch141/s9), [37 Stat. 738](/us/stat/37/738); [Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1102(c)](/us/pl/104/66/tI/s1102/c), Dec. 21, 1995, [109 Stat. 723](/us/stat/109/723).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 620 of Title 5](/us/usc/t5/s620) prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by [Pub. L. 89–554, § 1](/us/pl/89/554/s1), Sept. 1, 1966, [80 Stat. 378](/us/stat/80/378).

#### Amendments

1995—[Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66) in first sentence substituted “prepare and submit to Congress the financial statements of the Department that have been audited” for “make a report in writing to Congress, giving an account of all moneys received and disbursed by him and his department and describing the work done by the department”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Termination of Reporting Requirements

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a report required under this section is listed on page 124), see [section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66](/us/pl/104/66/s3003), as amended, set out as a note under [section 1113 of Title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1113), Money and Finance.
