---
title: "§ 291m–1. Loans for certain hospital experimentation projects"
identifier: "USC-T42-S291m–1"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section291m–1"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VI, § 643A, formerly § 623A, as added [Pub. L. 90–174, § 11](/us/pl/90/174/s11), Dec. 5, 1967, [81 Stat. 541](/us/stat/81/541), and renumbered § 643A, [Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201](/us/pl/91/296/tII/s201), June 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 344](/us/stat/84/344).)"
---
# § 291m–1. Loans for certain hospital experimentation projects

##### § 291m–1. Loans for certain hospital experimentation projects

(a) Other public or private sources unavailable for alleviation of hardship due to increased construction costs In order to alleviate hardship on any recipient of a grant under section 291n 11 See References in Text note below. of this title (as in effect immediately before August 18, 1964) for a project for the construction of an experimental or demonstration facility having as its specific purpose the application of novel means for the reduction of hospital costs with respect to which there has been a substantial increase in the cost of such construction (over the estimated cost of such project on the basis of which such grant was made) through no fault of such recipient, the Secretary is authorized to make a loan to such recipient not exceeding 66⅔ per centum of such increased costs, as determined by the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that such recipient is unable to obtain such an amount for such purpose from other public or private sources.

(b) Application; form; information Any such loan shall be made only on the basis of an application submitted to the Secretary in such form and containing such information and assurances as he may prescribe.

(c) Interest; repayment period Each such loan shall bear interest at the rate of 2½ per centum per annum on the unpaid balance thereof and shall be repayable over a period determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, but not exceeding fifty years.

(d) Authorization of appropriation There are hereby authorized to be appropriated $3,500,000 to carry out the provisions of this section.

*([July 1, 1944, ch. 373](/us/act/1944-07-01/ch373), title VI, § 643A, formerly § 623A, as added [Pub. L. 90–174, § 11](/us/pl/90/174/s11), Dec. 5, 1967, [81 Stat. 541](/us/stat/81/541), and renumbered § 643A, [Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201](/us/pl/91/296/tII/s201), June 30, 1970, [84 Stat. 344](/us/stat/84/344).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 291n of this title](/us/usc/t42/s291n), referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by [Pub. L. 90–174, § 3(b)(1)](/us/pl/90/174/s3/b/1), Dec. 5, 1967, [81 Stat. 535](/us/stat/81/535).
