---
title: "§ 5702. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T25-S5702"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-06-06"
last_updated: "2024-06-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title25-section5702"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "25"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–165, § 3](/us/pl/116/165/s3), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760).)"
---
# § 5702. Definitions

##### § 5702. Definitions

(1) Confer The term “confer” has the meaning given the term in [section 1660d of this title](/us/usc/t25/s1660d).

(2) Databases The term “databases” means—

(A) the National Crime Information Center database;

(B) the Combined DNA Index System;

(C) the Next Generation Identification System; and

(D) any other database relevant to responding to cases of missing or murdered Indians, including that under the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program and the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System.

(3) Indian The term “Indian” means a member of an Indian Tribe.

(4) Indian country The term “Indian country” has the meaning given the term in [section 1151 of title 18](/us/usc/t18/s1151).

(5) Indian land The term “Indian land” means Indian lands, as defined in [section 4302 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s4302).

(6) Indian Tribe The term “Indian Tribe” has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in [section 5304 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5304).

(7) Law enforcement agency The term “law enforcement agency” means a Tribal, Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency.

*([Pub. L. 116–165, § 3](/us/pl/116/165/s3), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 116–165](/us/pl/116/165), Oct. 10, 2020, [134 Stat. 760](/us/stat/134/760), known as Savanna’s Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5701 of this title](/us/usc/t25/s5701) and Tables.
