---
title: "§ 1831c. Assuring consistent oversight of subsidiaries of holding companies"
identifier: "USC-T12-S1831c"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section1831c"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[26], as added [Pub. L. 111–203, title VI, § 605(a)](/us/pl/111/203/tVI/s605/a), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1604](/us/stat/124/1604).)"
---
# § 1831c. Assuring consistent oversight of subsidiaries of holding companies

##### § 1831c. Assuring consistent oversight of subsidiaries of holding companies

(a) Definitions For purposes of this section:

(1) Board The term “Board” means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

(2) Functionally regulated subsidiary The term “functionally regulated subsidiary” has the same meaning as in section 1844(c)(5) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.

(3) Lead insured depository institution The term “lead insured depository institution” has the same meaning as in section 1841(*o*)(8) ^1 of this title.

(b) Examination requirements Subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [[12 U.S.C. 5511](/us/usc/t12/s5511) et seq.], the Board shall examine the activities of a nondepository institution subsidiary (other than a functionally regulated subsidiary or a subsidiary of a depository institution) of a depository institution holding company that are permissible for the insured depository institution subsidiaries of the depository institution holding company in the same manner, subject to the same standards, and with the same frequency as would be required if such activities were conducted in the lead insured depository institution of the depository institution holding company.

(c) State coordination

(1) Consultation and coordination If a nondepository institution subsidiary is supervised by a State bank supervisor or other State regulatory authority, the Board, in conducting the examinations required in subsection (b), shall consult and coordinate with such State regulator.

(2) Alternating examinations permitted The examinations required under subsection (b) may be conducted in joint or alternating manner with a State regulator, if the Board determines that an examination of a nondepository institution subsidiary conducted by the State carries out the purposes of this section.

(d) Appropriate Federal banking agency backup examination authority

(1) In general In the event that the Board does not conduct examinations required under subsection (b) in the same manner, subject to the same standards, and with the same frequency as would be required if such activities were conducted by the lead insured depository institution subsidiary of the depository institution holding company, the appropriate Federal banking agency for the lead insured depository institution may recommend in writing (which shall include a written explanation of the concerns giving rise to the recommendation) that the Board perform the examination required under subsection (b).

(2) Examination by an appropriate Federal banking agency If the Board does not, before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the Board receives a recommendation under paragraph (1), begin an examination as required under subsection (b) or provide a written explanation or plan to the appropriate Federal banking agency making such recommendation responding to the concerns raised by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the lead insured depository institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency for the lead insured depository institution may, subject to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, examine the activities that are permissible for a depository institution subsidiary conducted by such nondepository institution subsidiary (other than a functionally regulated subsidiary or a subsidiary of a depository institution) of the depository institution holding company as if the nondepository institution subsidiary were an insured depository institution for which the appropriate Federal banking agency of the lead insured depository institution was the appropriate Federal banking agency, to determine whether the activities—

(A) pose a material threat to the safety and soundness of any insured depository institution subsidiary of the depository institution holding company;

(B) are conducted in accordance with applicable Federal law; and

(C) are subject to appropriate systems for monitoring and controlling the financial, operating, and other material risks of the activities that may pose a material threat to the safety and soundness of the insured depository institution subsidiaries of the holding company.

(3) Agency coordination with the Board An appropriate Federal banking agency that conducts an examination pursuant to paragraph (2) shall coordinate examination of the activities of nondepository institution subsidiaries described in subsection (b) with the Board in a manner that—

(A) avoids duplication;

(B) shares information relevant to the supervision of the depository institution holding company;

(C) achieves the objectives of subsection (b); and

(D) ensures that the depository institution holding company and the subsidiaries of the depository institution holding company are not subject to conflicting supervisory demands by such agency and the Board.

(4) Fee permitted for examination costs An appropriate Federal banking agency that conducts an examination or enforcement action pursuant to this section may collect an assessment, fee, or such other charge from the subsidiary as the appropriate Federal banking agency determines necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of the appropriate Federal banking agency in connection with such examination.

(e) Referrals for enforcement by appropriate Federal banking agency

(1) Recommendation of enforcement action The appropriate Federal banking agency for the lead insured depository institution, based upon its examination of a nondepository institution subsidiary conducted pursuant to subsection (d), or other relevant information, may submit to the Board, in writing, a recommendation that the Board take enforcement action against such nondepository institution subsidiary, together with an explanation of the concerns giving rise to the recommendation, if the appropriate Federal banking agency determines (by a vote of its members, if applicable) that the activities of the nondepository institution subsidiary pose a material threat to the safety and soundness of any insured depository institution subsidiary of the depository institution holding company.

(2) Back-up authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency If, within the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the Board receives a recommendation under paragraph (1), the Board does not take enforcement action against the nondepository institution subsidiary or provide a plan for supervisory or enforcement action that is acceptable to the appropriate Federal banking agency that made the recommendation pursuant to paragraph (1), such agency may take the recommended enforcement action against the nondepository institution subsidiary, in the same manner as if the nondepository institution subsidiary were an insured depository institution for which the agency was the appropriate Federal banking agency.

(f) Coordination among appropriate Federal banking agencies Each Federal banking agency, prior to or when exercising authority under subsection (d) or (e) shall—

(1) provide reasonable notice to, and consult with, the appropriate Federal banking agency or State bank supervisor (or other State regulatory agency) of the nondepository institution subsidiary of a depository institution holding company that is described in subsection (d) before commencing any examination of the subsidiary;

(2) to the fullest extent possible—

(A) rely on the examinations, inspections, and reports of the appropriate Federal banking agency or the State bank supervisor (or other State regulatory agency) of the subsidiary;

(B) avoid duplication of examination activities, reporting requirements, and requests for information; and

(C) ensure that the depository institution holding company and the subsidiaries of the depository institution holding company are not subject to conflicting supervisory demands by the appropriate Federal banking agencies.

(g) Rule of construction No provision of this section shall be construed as limiting any authority of the Board, the Corporation, or the Comptroller of the Currency under any other provision of law.

*([Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[26], as added [Pub. L. 111–203, title VI, § 605(a)](/us/pl/111/203/tVI/s605/a), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1604](/us/stat/124/1604).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

[Section 1844(c)(5) of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1844/c/5), referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in the original “section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act” and was translated as reading “section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Section 1841(*o*)(8) of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), was in the original “section 2(*o*)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act” and was translated as reading “section 2(*o*)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (d)(2), is title X of [Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1955](/us/stat/124/1955), which enacted subchapter V (§ 5481 et seq.) of chapter 53 of this title and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. Subtitle B of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 5511 et seq.) of subchapter V of chapter 53 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301) and Tables.

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 1831c, [act Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2](/us/act/1950-09-21/ch967/s2)[26], as added Nov. 10, 1978, [Pub. L. 95–630, title XII, § 1205](/us/pl/95/630/tXII/s1205), [92 Stat. 3711](/us/stat/92/3711); amended Oct. 15, 1982, [Pub. L. 97–320, title I, § 113(p)](/us/pl/97/320/tI/s113/p), [96 Stat. 1474](/us/stat/96/1474); Jan. 12, 1983, [Pub. L. 97–457, § 3](/us/pl/97/457/s3), [96 Stat. 2507](/us/stat/96/2507), which related to conversion, merger, or consolidation of mutual savings banks into Federal savings banks or savings banks which are insured institutions within meaning of former [section 1724 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s1724), was repealed by [Pub. L. 103–325, title VI, § 602(f)(1)](/us/pl/103/325/tVI/s602/f/1), Sept. 23, 1994, [108 Stat. 2292](/us/stat/108/2292).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Pub. L. 111–203, title VI, § 605(b)](/us/pl/111/203/tVI/s605/b), July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 1607](/us/stat/124/1607), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect on the transfer date.”

[For definition of “transfer date” as used in [section 605(b) of Pub. L. 111–203](/us/pl/111/203/s605/b), set out above, see [section 5301 of this title](/us/usc/t12/s5301).]
