---
title: "§ 1423a. Prohibitions"
identifier: "USC-T16-S1423a"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section1423a"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 502](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3661](/us/stat/120/3661).)"
---
# § 1423a. Prohibitions

##### § 1423a. Prohibitions

(a) In general It is unlawful for any person who is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or any person in waters or on lands under the jurisdiction of the United States—

(1) to take any polar bear in violation of the Agreement;

(2) to take any polar bear in violation of the Agreement or any annual taking limit or other restriction on the taking of polar bears that is adopted by the Commission pursuant to the Agreement;

(3) to import, export, possess, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase, exchange, barter, or offer to sell, purchase, exchange, or barter any polar bear, or any part or product of a polar bear, that is taken in violation of paragraph (2);

(4) to import, export, sell, purchase, exchange, barter, or offer to sell, purchase, exchange, or barter, any polar bear gall bile or polar bear gall bladder;

(5) to attempt to commit, solicit another person to commit, or cause to be committed, any offense under this subsection; or

(6) to violate any regulation promulgated by the Secretary to implement any of the prohibitions established in this subsection.

(b) Exceptions For the purpose of forensic testing or any other law enforcement purpose, the Secretary, and Federal law enforcement officials, and any State or local law enforcement official authorized by the Secretary, may import a polar bear or any part or product of a polar bear.

*([Pub. L. 92–522, title V, § 502](/us/pl/92/522/tV/s502), as added [Pub. L. 109–479, title IX, § 902(a)](/us/pl/109/479/tIX/s902/a), Jan. 12, 2007, [120 Stat. 3661](/us/stat/120/3661).)*
