---
title: "§ 3032i. Demonstration and support projects for legal assistance for older individuals"
identifier: "USC-T42-S3032i"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section3032i"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 89–73, title IV, § 420](/us/pl/89/73/tIV/s420), as added [Pub. L. 106–501, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/106/501/tIV/s401), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/114/2265); amended [Pub. L. 114–144, § 5(c)](/us/pl/114/144/s5/c), Apr. 19, 2016, [130 Stat. 342](/us/stat/130/342).)"
---
# § 3032i. Demonstration and support projects for legal assistance for older individuals

##### § 3032i. Demonstration and support projects for legal assistance for older individuals

(a) Program authorized The Assistant Secretary shall make grants and enter into contracts, in order to—

(1) provide a national legal assistance support system (operated by one or more grantees or contractors) of activities to State and area agencies on aging for providing, developing, or supporting legal assistance for older individuals, including—

(A) case consultations;

(B) training;

(C) provision of substantive legal advice and assistance; and

(D) assistance in the design, implementation, and administration of legal assistance delivery systems to local providers of legal assistance for older individuals; and

(2) support demonstration projects to expand or improve the delivery of legal assistance to older individuals with social or economic needs.

(b) Assurances Any grants or contracts made under subsection (a)(2) shall contain assurances that the requirements of [section 3027(a)(11) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3027/a/11) are met.

(c) Assistance To carry out subsection (a)(1), the Assistant Secretary shall make grants to or enter into contracts with nonprofit organizations experienced in providing support and technical assistance on a nationwide basis to States, area agencies on aging, legal assistance providers, ombudsmen, elder abuse prevention programs, and other organizations interested in the legal rights of older individuals.

*([Pub. L. 89–73, title IV, § 420](/us/pl/89/73/tIV/s420), as added [Pub. L. 106–501, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/106/501/tIV/s401), Nov. 13, 2000, [114 Stat. 2265](/us/stat/114/2265); amended [Pub. L. 114–144, § 5(c)](/us/pl/114/144/s5/c), Apr. 19, 2016, [130 Stat. 342](/us/stat/130/342).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior [section 420 of Pub. L. 89–73](/us/pl/89/73/s420) was classified to [section 3034 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s3034), prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by [Pub. L. 106–501](/us/pl/106/501).

#### Amendments

2016—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 114–144](/us/pl/114/144) struck out “national” before “nonprofit organizations”.
