---
title: "§ 4518. Modernization of small business suppliers"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4518"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4518"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 108, as added [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 111](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s111), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4202](/us/stat/106/4202).)"
---
# § 4518. Modernization of small business suppliers

##### § 4518. Modernization of small business suppliers

(a) In general In providing any assistance under this chapter, the President shall accord a strong preference for small business concerns which are subcontractors or suppliers, and, to the maximum extent practicable, to such small business concerns located in areas of high unemployment or areas that have demonstrated a continuing pattern of economic decline, as identified by the Secretary of Labor.

(b) Modernization of equipment

(1) In general Funds authorized under subchapter II may be used to guarantee the purchase or lease of advance manufacturing equipment, and any related services with respect to any such equipment for purposes of this chapter.

(2) Small business suppliers In considering proposals for subchapter II projects under paragraph (1), the President shall provide a strong preference for proposals submitted by a small business supplier or subcontractor whose proposal—

(A) has the support of the department or agency which will provide the guarantee;

(B) reflects that the small business concern has made arrangements to obtain qualified outside assistance to support the effective utilization of the advanced manufacturing equipment being proposed for installation; and

(C) meets the requirements of section 4531, 4532, or 4533 of this title.

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title I, § 108, as added [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 111](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s111), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4202](/us/stat/106/4202).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 4564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4564/a).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2078 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section deemed to have become effective Mar. 1, 1992, see [section 304 of Pub. L. 102–558](/us/pl/102/558/s304), set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under [section 4502 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4502).

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Functions of the President under this chapter relating to the production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, delegated to the Secretary of Energy, see section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 11790, eff. June 25, 1974, 39 F.R. 23185, set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15](/us/usc/t15/s761), Commerce and Trade.
