---
title: "§ 7255. Milk manufacturing marketing adjustment"
identifier: "USC-T7-S7255"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title7-section7255"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "7"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 145](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s145), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 917](/us/stat/110/917).)"
---
# § 7255. Milk manufacturing marketing adjustment

##### § 7255. Milk manufacturing marketing adjustment

(a) Maximum allowances established No State shall provide for a manufacturing allowance for the processing of milk in excess of—

(1) $1.65 per hundredweight of milk for milk manufactured into butter and nonfat dry milk; and

(2) $1.80 per hundredweight of milk for milk manufactured into cheese.

(b) “Manufacturing allowance” defined In this section, the term “manufacturing allowance” means—

(1) the amount by which the product price value of butter and nonfat dry milk manufactured from a hundred pounds of milk containing 3.5 pounds of butterfat and 8.7 pounds of milk solids not fat resulting from a State’s yield and product price formulas exceeds the class price for the milk used to produce those products; or

(2) the amount by which the product price value of cheese manufactured from a hundred pounds of milk containing 3.5 pounds of butterfat and 8.7 pounds of milk solids not fat resulting from a State’s yield and product price formulas exceeds the class price for the milk used to produce cheese.

(c) Effect of violation If the Secretary determines following a hearing that a State has in effect a manufacturing allowance that exceeds the manufacturing allowance authorized in subsection (a), the Secretary shall suspend purchases of cheddar cheese, butter, and nonfat dry milk produced in that State until such time as the State complies with such subsection.

(d) Effective date; implementation This section (other than subsection (e) 11 See Codification note below.) shall be effective during the period beginning on the first day of the first month beginning after April 4, 1996, and ending on December 31, 1999. During that period, the Secretary may exercise the authority provided to the Secretary under this section without regard to the issuance of regulations intended to carry out this section.

*([Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 145](/us/pl/104/127/tI/s145), Apr. 4, 1996, [110 Stat. 917](/us/stat/110/917).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 145 of Pub. L. 104–127](/us/pl/104/127/s145). Subsec. (e) of [section 145 of Pub. L. 104–127](/us/pl/104/127/s145) repealed [section 1446e–1 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1446e–1) and enacted provisions set out as a note under [section 1446e–1 of this title](/us/usc/t7/s1446e–1).
