---
title: "§ 2153e. Protection of environment"
identifier: "USC-T42-S2153e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section2153e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 95–242, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/95/242/tIV/s407), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 148](/us/stat/92/148).)"
---
# § 2153e. Protection of environment

##### § 2153e. Protection of environment

The President shall endeavor to provide in any agreement entered into pursuant to [section 2153 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s2153) for cooperation between the parties in protecting the international environment from radioactive, chemical or thermal contamination arising from peaceful nuclear activities.

*([Pub. L. 95–242, title IV, § 407](/us/pl/95/242/tIV/s407), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 148](/us/stat/92/148).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was enacted as part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective Mar. 10, 1978, except as otherwise provided and regardless of any requirements for the promulgation of implementing regulations, see [section 603(c) of Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242/s603/c), set out as a note under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

Secretary of State responsible for performing functions vested in President under this section, see section 2(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 12058, May 11, 1978, 43 F.R. 20947, set out under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Performance of Functions Pending Development of Procedures

The performance of functions under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, [Pub. L. 95–242](/us/pl/95/242), Mar. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 120](/us/stat/92/120), not to be delayed pending development of procedures even though as many as 120 days [after Mar. 10, 1978] are allowed for establishing those procedures, see section 5(b) of Ex. Ord. No. 12058, May 11, 1978, 43 F.R. 20947, set out under [section 3201 of Title 22](/us/usc/t22/s3201), Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
