---
title: "§ 3007. Training and physical fitness"
identifier: "USC-T33-S3007"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section3007"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 217](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/116/259/tI/s104/a), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/134/1156).)"
---
# § 3007. Training and physical fitness

##### § 3007. Training and physical fitness

(a) Training The Secretary may take such measures as may be necessary to ensure that officers are prepared to carry out their duties in the commissioned officer corps of the Administration and proficient in the skills necessary to carry out such duties. Such measures may include the following:

(1) Carrying out training programs and correspondence courses, including establishing and operating a basic officer training program to provide initial indoctrination and maritime vocational training for officer candidates as well as refresher training, mid-career training, aviation training, and such other training as the Secretary considers necessary for officer development and proficiency.

(2) Providing officers and officer candidates with educational materials.

(3) Acquiring such equipment as may be necessary for training and instructional purposes.

(b) Physical fitness The Secretary shall ensure that officers maintain a high physical state of readiness by establishing standards of physical fitness for officers that are substantially equivalent to those prescribed for officers in the Coast Guard.

*([Pub. L. 107–372, title II, § 217](/us/pl/107/372/tII/s217), as added [Pub. L. 116–259, title I, § 104(a)](/us/pl/116/259/tI/s104/a), Dec. 23, 2020, [134 Stat. 1156](/us/stat/134/1156).)*
