---
title: "§ 3538. Administrative action following WTO panel reports"
identifier: "USC-T19-S3538"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section3538"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 129](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s129), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4836](/us/stat/108/4836).)"
---
# § 3538. Administrative action following WTO panel reports

##### § 3538. Administrative action following WTO panel reports

(a) Action by United States International Trade Commission

(1) Advisory report If a dispute settlement panel finds in an interim report under Article 15 of the Dispute Settlement Understanding, or the Appellate Body finds in a report under Article 17 of that Understanding, that an action by the International Trade Commission in connection with a particular proceeding is not in conformity with the obligations of the United States under the Antidumping Agreement, the Safeguards Agreement, or the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Trade Representative may request the Commission to issue an advisory report on whether title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1671](/us/usc/t19/s1671) et seq.] or title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [[19 U.S.C. 2251](/us/usc/t19/s2251) et seq.], as the case may be, permits the Commission to take steps in connection with the particular proceeding that would render its action not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or the Appellate Body concerning those obligations. The Trade Representative shall notify the congressional committees of such request.

(2) Time limits for report The Commission shall transmit its report under paragraph (1) to the Trade Representative—

(A) in the case of an interim report described in paragraph (1), within 30 calendar days after the Trade Representative requests the report; and

(B) in the case of a report of the Appellate Body, within 21 calendar days after the Trade Representative requests the report.

(3) Consultations on request for Commission determination If a majority of the Commissioners issues an affirmative report under paragraph (1), the Trade Representative shall consult with the congressional committees concerning the matter.

(4) Commission determination Notwithstanding any provision of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1202](/us/usc/t19/s1202) et seq.] or title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [[19 U.S.C. 2251](/us/usc/t19/s2251) et seq.], if a majority of the Commissioners issues an affirmative report under paragraph (1), the Commission, upon the written request of the Trade Representative, shall issue a determination in connection with the particular proceeding that would render the Commission’s action described in paragraph (1) not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or Appellate Body. The Commission shall issue its determination not later than 120 days after the request from the Trade Representative is made.

(5) Consultations on implementation of Commission determination The Trade Representative shall consult with the congressional committees before the Commission’s determination under paragraph (4) is implemented.

(6) Revocation of order If, by virtue of the Commission’s determination under paragraph (4), an antidumping or countervailing duty order with respect to some or all of the imports that are subject to the action of the Commission described in paragraph (1) is no longer supported by an affirmative Commission determination under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1671](/us/usc/t19/s1671) et seq.] or this subsection, the Trade Representative may, after consulting with the congressional committees under paragraph (5), direct the administering authority to revoke the antidumping or countervailing duty order in whole or in part.

(b) Action by administering authority

(1) Consultations with administering authority and congressional committees Promptly after a report by a dispute settlement panel or the Appellate Body is issued that contains findings that an action by the administering authority in a proceeding under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1671](/us/usc/t19/s1671) et seq.] is not in conformity with the obligations of the United States under the Antidumping Agreement or the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Trade Representative shall consult with the administering authority and the congressional committees on the matter.

(2) Determination by administering authority Notwithstanding any provision of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1202](/us/usc/t19/s1202) et seq.], the administering authority shall, within 180 days after receipt of a written request from the Trade Representative, issue a determination in connection with the particular proceeding that would render the administering authority’s action described in paragraph (1) not inconsistent with the findings of the panel or the Appellate Body.

(3) Consultations before implementation Before the administering authority implements any determination under paragraph (2), the Trade Representative shall consult with the administering authority and the congressional committees with respect to such determination.

(4) Implementation of determination The Trade Representative may, after consulting with the administering authority and the congressional committees under paragraph (3), direct the administering authority to implement, in whole or in part, the determination made under paragraph (2).

(c) Effects of determinations; notice of implementation

(1) Effects of determinations Determinations concerning title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1671](/us/usc/t19/s1671) et seq.] that are implemented under this section shall apply with respect to unliquidated entries of the subject merchandise (as defined in section 771 of that Act [[19 U.S.C. 1677](/us/usc/t19/s1677)]) that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after—

(A) in the case of a determination by the Commission under subsection (a)(4), the date on which the Trade Representative directs the administering authority under subsection (a)(6) to revoke an order pursuant to that determination, and

(B) in the case of a determination by the administering authority under subsection (b)(2), the date on which the Trade Representative directs the administering authority under subsection (b)(4) to implement that determination.

(2) Notice of implementation

(A) The administering authority shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the implementation of any determination made under this section with respect to title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 [[19 U.S.C. 1671](/us/usc/t19/s1671) et seq.].

(B) The Trade Representative shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the implementation of any determination made under this section with respect to title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [[19 U.S.C. 2251](/us/usc/t19/s2251) et seq.].

(d) Opportunity for comment by interested parties Prior to issuing a determination under this section, the administering authority or the Commission, as the case may be, shall provide interested parties with an opportunity to submit written comments and, in appropriate cases, may hold a hearing, with respect to the determination.

*([Pub. L. 103–465, title I, § 129](/us/pl/103/465/tI/s129), Dec. 8, 1994, [108 Stat. 4836](/us/stat/108/4836).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Tariff Act of 1930, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (4), (6), (b)(1), (2), and (c)(1), (2)(A), is [act June 17, 1930, ch. 497](/us/act/1930-06-17/ch497), [46 Stat. 590](/us/stat/46/590), which is classified generally to chapter 4 (§ 1202 et seq.) of this title. Title VII of the Act is classified generally to subtitle IV (§ 1671 et seq.) of chapter 4 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 1654 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1654) and Tables.

The Trade Act of 1974, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (4) and (c)(2)(B), is [Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 1978](/us/stat/88/1978). Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 2251 et seq.) of chapter 12 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 2101 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s2101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section is comprised of [section 129 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s129). Subsecs. (a)(7) and (e) of [section 129 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s129) amended sections 2254 and 1516a, respectively, of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date on which the WTO Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), see [section 130 of Pub. L. 103–465](/us/pl/103/465/s130), set out as a note under [section 3531 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3531).
