---
title: "§ 6331. Laboratory-directed research and development programs"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6331"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6331"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1448](/us/stat/139/1448).)"
---
# § 6331. Laboratory-directed research and development programs

##### § 6331. Laboratory-directed research and development programs

(a) Authority.— Government-owned, contractor-operated laboratories that are funded out of funds available to the Department of Energy for national security programs are authorized to carry out laboratory-directed research and development.

(b) Regulations.— The Secretary of Energy shall prescribe regulations for the conduct of laboratory-directed research and development at such laboratories.

(c) Funding.— Of the funds provided by the Department of Energy to a national security laboratory for national security activities, the Secretary shall provide a specific amount, of not less than 5 percent and not more than 7 percent of such funds, to be used by the laboratory for laboratory-directed research and development.

(d) Laboratory-directed Research and Development Defined.— For purposes of this section, the term “laboratory-directed research and development” means research and development work of a creative and innovative nature which, under the regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (b), is selected by the director of a laboratory for the purpose of maintaining the vitality of the laboratory in defense-related scientific disciplines.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1448](/us/stat/139/1448).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6331 was renumbered [section 8331 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8331).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2791 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2791), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
