---
title: "§ 460vv–18. Land acquisition"
identifier: "USC-T16-S460vv–18"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section460vv–18"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 100–499, § 20](/us/pl/100/499/s20), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2499](/us/stat/102/2499).)"
---
# § 460vv–18. Land acquisition

##### § 460vv–18. Land acquisition

(a) Authority The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, any lands or interests therein, which the Secretary determines are needed to establish and manage the Winding Stair Mountain National Recreation and Wilderness Area.

(b) Offers In exercising the authority conferred by this section to acquire lands, the Secretary of Agriculture shall give prompt and careful consideration to any offer made by an individual owning any land, or interest in land, within the Winding Stair Mountain National Recreation and Wilderness Area. In considering any such offer, the Secretary shall take into consideration any hardship to the owner which might result from any undue delay in acquiring the property.

(c) Additional facilities The Secretary of Agriculture may acquire sites at locations outside such boundaries of the Winding Stair Mountain National Recreation and Wilderness Area, as he determines necessary, for visitor orientation and the establishment of a lodge and additional facilities to enhance the quality of the area.

(d) Additional lands Notwithstanding the limitations contained in [section 200306(a)(2) of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s200306/a/2), the Secretary of Agriculture may acquire by purchase, exchange, donation or otherwise any right, title, and interest in lands in Le Flore County, Oklahoma, which are outside the boundaries of the Ouachita National Forest. No such right, title or interest may be acquired without the consent of the owner thereof. All lands and interests therein acquired under this subsection shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the Act of March 1, 1911, commonly referred to as the Weeks Act ([36 Stat. 961](/us/stat/36/961)) and in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations generally applicable to units of the national forest system. The Secretary of Agriculture shall extend the boundaries of the Ouachita National Forest to include such lands.

*([Pub. L. 100–499, § 20](/us/pl/100/499/s20), Oct. 18, 1988, [102 Stat. 2499](/us/stat/102/2499).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Act of March 1, 1911, referred to in subsec. (d), is [act Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186](/us/act/1911-03-01/ch186), [36 Stat. 961](/us/stat/36/961), popularly known as the Weeks Law, which enacted former sections 513 and 514 and sections 515 to 519, 521, 552, and 563 of this title and amended sections 480 and 500 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 552 of this title](/us/usc/t16/s552) and Tables.

#### Codification

In subsec. (d), “[section 200306(a)(2) of title 54](/us/usc/t54/s200306/a/2)” substituted for “section 7(a)(1) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965” on authority of [Pub. L. 113–287, § 6(e)](/us/pl/113/287/s6/e), Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3272](/us/stat/128/3272), which Act enacted Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs.
