---
title: "§ 231. Civil disorders"
identifier: "USC-T18-S231"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section231"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 90–284, title X, § 1002(a)](/us/pl/90/284/tX/s1002/a), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 90](/us/stat/82/90); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)"
---
# § 231. Civil disorders

##### § 231. Civil disorders

(a)

(1) Whoever teaches or demonstrates to any other person the use, application, or making of any firearm or explosive or incendiary device, or technique capable of causing injury or death to persons, knowing or having reason to know or intending that the same will be unlawfully employed for use in, or in furtherance of, a civil disorder which may in any way or degree obstruct, delay, or adversely affect commerce or the movement of any article or commodity in commerce or the conduct or performance of any federally protected function; or

(2) Whoever transports or manufactures for transportation in commerce any firearm, or explosive or incendiary device, knowing or having reason to know or intending that the same will be used unlawfully in furtherance of a civil disorder; or

(3) Whoever commits or attempts to commit any act to obstruct, impede, or interfere with any fireman or law enforcement officer lawfully engaged in the lawful performance of his official duties incident to and during the commission of a civil disorder which in any way or degree obstructs, delays, or adversely affects commerce or the movement of any article or commodity in commerce or the conduct or performance of any federally protected function—Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

(b) Nothing contained in this section shall make unlawful any act of any law enforcement officer which is performed in the lawful performance of his official duties.

*(Added [Pub. L. 90–284, title X, § 1002(a)](/us/pl/90/284/tX/s1002/a), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 90](/us/stat/82/90); amended [Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, § 330016(1)(L)](/us/pl/103/322/tXXXIII/s330016/1/L), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 2147](/us/stat/108/2147).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322) substituted “fined under this title” for “fined not more than $10,000” in concluding par.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Short Title

[Pub. L. 90–284, title X, § 1001](/us/pl/90/284/tX/s1001), Apr. 11, 1968, [82 Stat. 90](/us/stat/82/90), provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Civil Obedience Act of 1968’.”
