---
title: "§ 12651e. Officers"
identifier: "USC-T42-S12651e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section12651e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 194](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s194), as added [Pub. L. 103–82, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/103/82/tII/s202/a), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 882](/us/stat/107/882); amended [Pub. L. 110–409, § 4(a)(4)](/us/pl/110/409/s4/a/4), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4304](/us/stat/122/4304); [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1705](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1705), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/123/1547); [Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(p)](/us/pl/112/166/s2/p), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/126"
---
# § 12651e. Officers

##### § 12651e. Officers

(a) Managing Directors

(1) In general There shall be in the Corporation 2 Managing Directors, who shall be appointed by the President, and who shall report to the Chief Executive Officer.

(2) Compensation The Managing Directors shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315).

(3) Duties The Corporation shall determine the programs for which the Managing Directors shall have primary responsibility and shall establish the divisions of the Corporation to be headed by the Managing Directors.

(b) Inspector General

(1) Office There shall be in the Corporation an Office of the Inspector General.

(2) Appointment The Office shall be headed by an Inspector General, appointed in accordance with chapter 4 of title 5.

(c) Chief Financial Officer

(1) In general There shall be in the Corporation a Chief Financial Officer, who shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of [section 12651f of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12651f).

(2) Duties The Chief Financial Officer shall—

(A) report directly to the Chief Executive Officer regarding financial management matters;

(B) oversee all financial management activities relating to the programs and operations of the Corporation;

(C) develop and maintain an integrated accounting and financial management system for the Corporation, including financial reporting and internal controls;

(D) develop and maintain any joint financial management systems with the Department of Education necessary to carry out the programs of the Corporation; and

(E) direct, manage, and provide policy guidance and oversight of the financial management personnel, activities, and operations of the Corporation.

(d) Assistant Directors for VISTA and National Senior Service Corps

(1) Appointment One of the Managing Directors appointed under subsection (a) shall, in accordance with applicable provisions of title 5, appoint 4 Assistant Directors who shall report directly to such Managing Director, of which—

(A) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under parts A [[42 U.S.C. 4951](/us/usc/t42/s4951) et seq.] and B 11 See References in Text note below. of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program) and other antipoverty programs under title I of that Act [[42 U.S.C. 4951](/us/usc/t42/s4951) et seq.];

(B) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part A of title II of that Act [[42 U.S.C. 5001](/us/usc/t42/s5001) et seq.] (relating to the Retired Senior Volunteer Program);

(C) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part B of title II of that Act [[42 U.S.C. 5011](/us/usc/t42/s5011) et seq.] (relating to the Foster Grandparent Program); and

(D) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs carried out under part C of title II of that Act [[42 U.S.C. 5013](/us/usc/t42/s5013)] (relating to the Senior Companion Program).

(2) Effective date for exercise of authority Each Assistant Director appointed pursuant to paragraph (1) may exercise the authority assigned to each such Director only after the effective date of section 203(c)(2) of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993.

*([Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 194](/us/pl/101/610/tI/s194), as added [Pub. L. 103–82, title II, § 202(a)](/us/pl/103/82/tII/s202/a), Sept. 21, 1993, [107 Stat. 882](/us/stat/107/882); amended [Pub. L. 110–409, § 4(a)(4)](/us/pl/110/409/s4/a/4), Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4304](/us/stat/122/4304); [Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1705](/us/pl/111/13/tI/s1705), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1547](/us/stat/123/1547); [Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(p)](/us/pl/112/166/s2/p), Aug. 10, 2012, [126 Stat. 1288](/us/stat/126/1288); [Pub. L. 117–286, § 4(b)(87)](/us/pl/117/286/s4/b/87), Dec. 27, 2022, [136 Stat. 4352](/us/stat/136/4352).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is [Pub. L. 93–113](/us/pl/93/113), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 394](/us/stat/87/394). Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 4951 et seq.) of chapter 66 of this title. Part A of title I of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 4951 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 66 of this title. Part B of title I of the Act, which was classified generally to part B (§ 4971 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 66 of this title, was repealed by [Pub. L. 111–13, title II, § 2121](/us/pl/111/13/tII/s2121), Apr. 21, 2009, [123 Stat. 1584](/us/stat/123/1584). Parts A, B, and C of title II of the Act are classified generally to parts A (§ 5001 et seq.), B (§ 5011 et seq.), and C (§ 5013 et seq.), respectively, of subchapter II of chapter 66 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950) and Tables.

Section 203(c)(2) of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is [section 203(c)(2) of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s203/c/2), which is set out as a note under [section 12651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12651). For the effective date of section 203(c)(2) of this Act, see [section 203(d) of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s203/d), set out as an Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note under [section 12651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12651).

#### Amendments

2022—Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 117–286](/us/pl/117/286) substituted “chapter 4 of title 5.” for “the Inspector General Act of 1978.”

2012—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) struck out “, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate” after “President”.

2009—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13) added par. (1), redesignated par. (3) as (2), and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:

“(1) Office.—There shall be in the Corporation a Chief Financial Officer, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

“(2) Compensation.—The Chief Financial Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315).”

2008—Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 110–409](/us/pl/110/409) struck out par. (3). Text read as follows: “The Inspector General shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under [section 5315 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5315).”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2012 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166) effective 60 days after Aug. 10, 2012, and applicable to appointments made on and after that effective date, including any nomination pending in the Senate on that date, see [section 6(a) of Pub. L. 112–166](/us/pl/112/166/s6/a), set out as a note under [section 113 of Title 6](/us/usc/t6/s113), Domestic Security.

#### Effective Date of 2009 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13) effective Oct. 1, 2009, see [section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13](/us/pl/111/13/s6101/a), set out as a note under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950).

#### Effective Date

Section effective Oct. 1, 1993, see [section 202(i) of Pub. L. 103–82](/us/pl/103/82/s202/i), set out as a note under [section 12651 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s12651).
