---
title: "§ 2387. Contract working dogs: requirement to transfer animals to 341st Training Squadron after service life"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2387"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2387"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title III, § 342(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tIII/s342/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2082](/us/stat/130/2082), § 2410r; amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, § 372(f)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIII/s372/f), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1331](/us/stat/133/1331); renumbered § 2387, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1882(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1882/b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4293](/us/stat/134/4293).)"
---
# § 2387. Contract working dogs: requirement to transfer animals to 341st Training Squadron after service life

##### § 2387. Contract working dogs: requirement to transfer animals to 341st Training Squadron after service life

(a) In General.— Each contract entered into by the Secretary of Defense for the provision of a contract working dog shall require, and shall contain a contract term, that the dog be transferred to the 341st Training Squadron and assigned for veterinary screening and care in accordance with [section 2583 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2583) after the service life of the dog has terminated as described in subsection (b) for reclassification as a military animal and placement for adoption in accordance with such section.

(b) Service Life.— The service life of a contract working dog has terminated and the dog is available for transfer to the 341st Training Squadron pursuant to a contract under subsection (a) only if the contracting officer concerned has determined that—

(1) the final contractual obligation of the dog preceding such transfer is with the Department of Defense; and

(2) the dog cannot be used by another department or agency of the Federal Government due to age, injury, or performance.

(c) Contract Working Dog.— In this section, the term “contract working dog” means a dog—

(1) that performs a service for the Department of Defense pursuant to a contract; and

(2) that is trained and kenneled by an entity that provides such a dog pursuant to such a contract.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title III, § 342(a)(1)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tIII/s342/a/1), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2082](/us/stat/130/2082), § 2410r; amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, § 372(f)](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tIII/s372/f), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1331](/us/stat/133/1331); renumbered § 2387, [Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, § 1882(b)](/us/pl/116/283/dA/tXVIII/s1882/b), Jan. 1, 2021, [134 Stat. 4293](/us/stat/134/4293).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 2387, added [Pub. L. 85–861, § 1(45)](/us/pl/85/861/s1/45), Sept. 2, 1958, [72 Stat. 1458](/us/stat/72/1458), related to limitation on procurement of table and kitchen equipment for officers’ quarters, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, § 833(b)(4)(A)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tVIII/s833/b/4/A), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2285](/us/stat/130/2285).

#### Amendments

2021—[Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) renumbered [section 2410r of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2410r) as this section.

2019—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) inserted “, and shall contain a contract term,” after “shall require” and “and assigned for veterinary screening and care in accordance with [section 2583 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2583)” after “341st Training Squadron” and substituted “such section” for “[section 2583 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2583)”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment

Amendment by [Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283) effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see [section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283](/us/pl/116/283/s1801/d), set out as a note preceding [section 3001 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s3001).
