---
title: "§ 5722. Relation to State laws"
identifier: "USC-T15-S5722"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title15-section5722"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "15"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 102–556, title III, § 302](/us/pl/102/556/tIII/s302), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4192](/us/stat/106/4192).)"
---
# § 5722. Relation to State laws

##### § 5722. Relation to State laws

(a) State law applicable unless inconsistent This subchapter does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any person subject to the provisions of this subchapter from complying with, the laws of any State with respect to telephone billing practices, except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any provision of this subchapter, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. The Commission is authorized to determine whether such inconsistencies exist. The Commission may not determine that any State law is inconsistent with any provision of this subchapter 11 See References in Text note below. if the Commission determines that such law gives greater protection to the consumer.

(b) Regulatory exemptions The Commission shall by regulation exempt from the requirements of this subchapter any class of telephone-billed purchase transactions within any State if it determines that under the law of that State that class of transactions is subject to requirements substantially similar to those imposed under this subchapter ^1 or that such law gives greater protection to the consumer, and that there is adequate provision for enforcement.

*([Pub. L. 102–556, title III, § 302](/us/pl/102/556/tIII/s302), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4192](/us/stat/106/4192).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to the last time in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this chapter” and was translated as reading “this title” meaning title III of [Pub. L. 102–556](/us/pl/102/556), to reflect the probable intent of Congress because [Pub. L. 102–556](/us/pl/102/556) does not contain chapters.
