---
title: "§ 1354. Quotas on Philippine articles"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1354"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1354"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244](/us/act/1946-04-30/ch244), title V, § 504, [60 Stat. 156](/us/stat/60/156); [Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 171(b)](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s171/b), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2009](/us/stat/88/2009).)"
---
# § 1354. Quotas on Philippine articles

##### § 1354. Quotas on Philippine articles

(a) to (c) Omitted

(d) Investigations by International Trade Commission The United States International Trade Commission shall at the request of the President, upon resolution of either House of Congress or concurrent resolution of both Houses of Congress, upon its own motion, or when in its judgment there is good reason therefor, upon application of any interested party, make an investigation to ascertain (1) whether imports of a Philippine article (other than an article for which a quota is established by part 2 of subchapter I) are coming, or are likely to come, into substantial competition with like articles which are the product of the United States; (2) what is the greatest amount of such article which may be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption, without coming into substantial competition with like articles which are the product of the United States; and (3) the total amount of such article which (during the twelve months ended on the last day of the month preceding the month in which occurs the date of the beginning of the investigation) was entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, in the United States for consumption. During the course of the investigation the Commission shall hold a public hearing, of which reasonable public notice shall be given and at which parties interested shall be afforded reasonable opportunity to be present, to produce evidence, and to be heard. The Commission shall give precedence to such investigations. The Commission shall report the results of its investigations to the President, and shall send copies of such report to each House of the Congress.

*([Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244](/us/act/1946-04-30/ch244), title V, § 504, [60 Stat. 156](/us/stat/60/156); [Pub. L. 93–618, title I, § 171(b)](/us/pl/93/618/tI/s171/b), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2009](/us/stat/88/2009).)*

#### Suspension of Provisions

Section not applicable during such time as the revised agreement between the United States and the Philippines is in effect, see [section 1373 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1373).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

Part 2 of subchapter I, referred to in subsec. (d), was omitted from the Code. See Codification note set out under [section 1261 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1261).

#### Codification

Subsec. (a) of this section, which provided that the President establish quotas on Philippine articles, was omitted on authority of subsec. (c) of this section which provided that no quota so established continue in effect after the expiration of the executive agreement which expiration occurred on July 4, 1974. Subsec. (b) of this section, which provided for the maximum and minimum quotas, was omitted on authority of subsec. (c) of this section. Subsec. (c) provided for the duration of the quotas.

#### Amendments

1975—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 93–618](/us/pl/93/618) substituted “United States International Trade Commission” for “United States Tariff Commission”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

[Act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, § 512](/us/act/1946-04-30/ch244/tV/s512), [60 Stat. 158](/us/stat/60/158), provided that: “This Act [enacting subchapters I to IV of this chapter; sections 2470(a)(2) and 2800(a)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939; and [section 734 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s734), Territories and Insular Possessions] shall take effect on the day after the date of its enactment [Apr. 30, 1946], except Part 2 of Title II [enacting sections 1261 to 1266 of this title], which shall take effect as of January 1, 1946.”

#### Short Title

[Act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title I, § 1](/us/act/1946-04-30/ch244/tI/s1), [60 Stat. 141](/us/stat/60/141), provided that: “This Act [enacting subchapters I to IV of this chapter, amending [section 1393 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s1393), sections 2470 and 2800 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and [section 734 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s734), Territories and Insular Possessions, repealing [section 1301 of Title 19](/us/usc/t19/s1301), Customs Duties, sections 2476, and 3340 to 3343 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and [section 1243 of Title 48](/us/usc/t48/s1243)] may be cited as the ‘Philippine Trade Act of 1946’.”
