---
title: "§ 381. Consolidated budget"
identifier: "USC-T10-S381"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section381"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1249(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1249/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2526](/us/stat/130/2526); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XII, § 1204](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXII/s1204), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1622](/us/stat/133/1622); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title X, § 1061(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tX/s1061/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 398](/us/stat/137/398); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(6)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVII/s1701/a/6), Dec. 23, 2024"
---
# § 381. Consolidated budget

##### § 381. Consolidated budget

(a) Consolidated Budget.— The budget of the President for each fiscal year, as submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), shall set forth by budget function and as a separate item the amounts requested for the Department of Defense for such fiscal year for all security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense, including the military departments, to be conducted in such fiscal year, including the specific country or region and the applicable authority, to the extent practicable.

(b) Semiannual Report on Use of Funds.— The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the obligation and expenditure of funds for security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense—

(1) by not later than August 31 of each year, for the first six-month period of that year; and

(2) by not later than February 28 of each year, for the second six-month period of the preceding year.

*(Added [Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1249(a)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1249/a), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2526](/us/stat/130/2526); amended [Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XII, § 1204](/us/pl/116/92/dA/tXII/s1204), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 1622](/us/stat/133/1622); [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title X, § 1061(a)](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tX/s1061/a), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 398](/us/stat/137/398); [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(6)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVII/s1701/a/6), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2203](/us/stat/138/2203).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 381 was renumbered [section 281 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s281).

#### Amendments

2024—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) substituted “Defense—” for “Defense—.” in introductory provisions.

2023—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 118–31](/us/pl/118/31), in heading, substituted “Semiannual Report” for “Quarterly Report”, and, in text, substituted “The” for “Not later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter, the” and “Defense—” for “Defense during such calendar quarter” and added pars. (1) and (2).

2019—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 116–92](/us/pl/116/92) substituted “60 days” for “30 days”.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date; Applicability

[Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, § 1249(b)](/us/pl/114/328/dA/tXII/s1249/b), Dec. 23, 2016, [130 Stat. 2526](/us/stat/130/2526), provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2016], and shall apply as follows: “(1) Subsection (a) of [section 381 of title 10](/us/usc/t10/s381), United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to budgets submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to [section 1105 of title 31](/us/usc/t31/s1105), United States Code, for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2018. “(2) Subsection (b) of such section 381, as so added, shall apply to calendar quarters beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.”
