---
title: "§ 674. White Horse Hill National Game Preserve"
identifier: "USC-T16-S674"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title16-section674"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "16"
source_credit: "([June 30, 1914, ch. 131](/us/act/1914-06-30/ch131), [38 Stat. 434](/us/stat/38/434); [Mar. 3, 1931, ch. 439, § 1](/us/act/1931-03-03/ch439/s1), [46 Stat. 1509](/us/stat/46/1509); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)"
---
# § 674. White Horse Hill National Game Preserve

##### § 674. White Horse Hill National Game Preserve

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to inclose the Sullys Hill National Game Preserve 11 See Change of Name note below. with a good and substantial fence, to construct thereon all sheds, buildings, and corrals necessary for the proper care and maintenance of the animals and birds therein, to erect a suitable headquarters, to construct and maintain roads, trails, and other structures necessary for the convenience of visitors, and to incur such other expenses as may be necessary for the proper maintenance of the preserve and the animals and birds placed therein. He is also authorized to place in the park buffalos, elk, deer, and such other wild or rare animals and birds as he may in his discretion decide.

*([June 30, 1914, ch. 131](/us/act/1914-06-30/ch131), [38 Stat. 434](/us/stat/38/434); [Mar. 3, 1931, ch. 439, § 1](/us/act/1931-03-03/ch439/s1), [46 Stat. 1509](/us/stat/46/1509); 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, § 4(f), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, [53 Stat. 1433](/us/stat/53/1433).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

This section was a provision of the agricultural appropriation act for the fiscal year 1915, act June 30, 1914, which, in the first sentence, made an appropriation of $5,000 for the improvement of a game preserve in Sullys Hill National Park, the same to be available until expended.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Act Mar. 3, 1931, provided that the Sullys Hill National Park should be administered as a big-game preserve, refuge and breeding grounds for wild animals and birds, which should be known as the Sullys Hill National Game Preserve. Sullys Hill National Game Preserve was renamed White Horse Hill National Game Preserve by [Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title IV, § 402(a)](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tIV/s402/a), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/133/3191).

#### Short Title of 2019 Amendment

[Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title IV, § 401](/us/pl/116/94/dP/tIV/s401), Dec. 20, 2019, [133 Stat. 3191](/us/stat/133/3191), provided that: “This title [amending sections 674a and 674b of this title and enacting provisions set out as a note under [section 674a of this title](/us/usc/t16/s674a)] may be cited as the ‘White Horse Hill National Game Preserve Designation Act’.”

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Transfer of Functions

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, transferred functions of Secretary of Agriculture relating to conservation of wildlife, game, and migratory birds to Secretary of the Interior.
