---
title: "§ 291. Lease of buildings, etc., for offices, living quarters, heat, light, and equipment"
identifier: "USC-T22-S291"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section291"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Apr. 18, 1930, ch. 184](/us/act/1930-04-18/ch184), title I, [46 Stat. 177](/us/stat/46/177).)"
---
# § 291. Lease of buildings, etc., for offices, living quarters, heat, light, and equipment

##### § 291. Lease of buildings, etc., for offices, living quarters, heat, light, and equipment

The Secretary of State may lease or rent, for periods not exceeding ten years, such buildings and grounds for the use of the Foreign Service as may be necessary; and he may, in accordance with existing practice without cost to them, and within the limit of any appropriation made by Congress, furnish the officers and employees in the Foreign Service with living quarters, heat, light, and household equipment in Government-owned or rented buildings, at places where, in his judgment, it would be in the public interest to do so, notwithstanding the provisions of [section 5536 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5536); and appropriations for “Contingent expenses, foreign missions,” and “Contingent expenses, consulates,” are made available for such purposes.

*([Apr. 18, 1930, ch. 184](/us/act/1930-04-18/ch184), title I, [46 Stat. 177](/us/stat/46/177).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Foreign Service Buildings Act, 1926, which comprises this chapter.

“[Section 5536 of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s5536)” substituted in text for “section 1765 of the Revised Statutes (U.S.C., title 5, sec. 70; U.S.C., Supp. III, title 5, sec. 70)” on authority of [Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b)](/us/pl/89/554/s7/b), Sept. 6, 1966, [80 Stat. 631](/us/stat/80/631), the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
