---
title: "§ 2349bb–2. Transit interdiction"
identifier: "USC-T22-S2349bb–2"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section2349bb–2"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. II, § 583, as added [Pub. L. 106–280, title III, § 301](/us/pl/106/280/tIII/s301), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 852](/us/stat/114/852); amended [Pub. L. 109–472, § 10(c)](/us/pl/109/472/s10/c), Jan. 11, 2007, [120 Stat. 3557](/us/stat/120/3557).)"
---
# § 2349bb–2. Transit interdiction

##### § 2349bb–2. Transit interdiction

(a) Allocation of funds In providing assistance under this part, the President shall ensure that, beginning in fiscal year 2007, not less than one-quarter of the total of such assistance is obligated for the purpose of enhancing the capabilities of friendly countries to detect and interdict proliferation-related shipments of cargo to non-State actors and States of proliferation concern.

(b) Priority to certain countries Priority shall be given in the apportionment of the assistance described under subsection (a) to any friendly country that has been determined by the Secretary of State to be a country frequently transited by proliferation-related shipments of cargo.

(c) Cooperative agreements In order to promote cooperation regarding the interdiction of weapons of mass destruction and related materials and delivery systems, the President is authorized to conclude agreements, including reciprocal maritime agreements, with other countries to facilitate effective measures to prevent the transportation of such items to non-state actors and states of proliferation concern.

(d) Determination and notice to Congress The Secretary of State shall notify the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate in writing not more than 30 days after making a determination that any friendly country has been determined to be a country eligible for priority consideration of any assistance under subsection (a). Such determination shall set forth the reasons for such determination, and may be submitted in classified and unclassified form, as necessary.

*([Pub. L. 87–195](/us/pl/87/195), pt. II, § 583, as added [Pub. L. 106–280, title III, § 301](/us/pl/106/280/tIII/s301), Oct. 6, 2000, [114 Stat. 852](/us/stat/114/852); amended [Pub. L. 109–472, § 10(c)](/us/pl/109/472/s10/c), Jan. 11, 2007, [120 Stat. 3557](/us/stat/120/3557).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2007—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–472, § 10(c)(1)](/us/pl/109/472/s10/c/1), substituted “shall ensure that, beginning in fiscal year 2007,” for “should ensure that”, “obligated” for “expended”, and “to non-State actors and States of proliferation concern” for “that originate from, and are destined for, other countries”.

Subsecs. (c), (d). [Pub. L. 109–472, § 10(c)(2)](/us/pl/109/472/s10/c/2), added subsecs. (c) and (d).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Delegation of Functions

For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under [section 2381 of this title](/us/usc/t22/s2381).
