---
title: "§ 2285. Department of Defense Climate Resilience Infrastructure Initiative"
identifier: "USC-T10-S2285"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section2285"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title III, § 332(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tIII/s332/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1637](/us/stat/135/1637); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(28)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVII/s1701/a/28), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2204](/us/stat/138/2204).)"
---
# § 2285. Department of Defense Climate Resilience Infrastructure Initiative

##### § 2285. Department of Defense Climate Resilience Infrastructure Initiative

(a) Designation.— The programs, practices, and activities carried out pursuant to this section shall be known collectively as the “Climate Resilience Infrastructure Initiative of the Department of Defense”.

(b) Hardening and Quick Recovery.— In carrying out military installation resilience plans pursuant to [section 2864 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2864), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the development by the Department of Defense of requirements for backup utilities, communications, and transportation to ensure that the critical infrastructure of Department facilities is hardened, developed, and constructed for quick recovery from natural disasters and the impacts of extreme weather.

(c) Sustainment and Modernization.— The Secretary shall develop sustainment and modernization requirements for facilities of the Department in connection with climate resilience.

(d) Collaboration in Planning With Local Communities.— The Secretary shall develop, within existing frameworks for collaborative activities between military installations and State and local communities, and in addition to the requirements of [section 2864(c) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s2864/c), a framework that authorizes and directs installation commanders to engage with State, regional, and local agencies, and with local communities, on planning for climate resilience, to enhance efficient response to impacts of extreme weather and secure collaborative investment in infrastructure that is resilient to the current and projected impacts of extreme weather.

(e) Testing and Training Range Lands.—

(1) Practices for sustainment of lands.— The Secretary shall develop and implement practices to sustain the lands of the military testing and training ranges of the Department, and the lands of testing and training ranges on State-owned National Guard installations, through the adaptation and resilience of such lands to the current and projected impacts of extreme weather to ensure the ongoing availability of such lands to military personnel, weapon systems, and equipment for testing and training purposes.

(2) Training and education on sustainment of lands.— The Secretary shall develop a program of training and education for members of the Armed Forces (including the reserve components) on the importance of the sustainment of the lands of the military testing and training ranges as described in paragraph (1).

(3) Investment in resilience of lands.— The Secretary shall use existing programs of the Department, including the Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program of the Department (or such successor program), to provide for investments determined appropriate by the Secretary in the lands of the military testing and training ranges, to increase the resilience and adaptation of such lands to the current and projected impacts of extreme weather for testing and training purposes in connection with current and projected testing and training requirements in the short- and long-term.

(f) Use of Certain Technologies.— The Secretary shall take appropriate actions to increase the use of low emission, emission-free, and net-zero-emission energy technologies in the operations, programs, projects, and activities of the Department, provided the use is cost effective over the life-cycle of the investment.

*(Added [Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title III, § 332(a)](/us/pl/117/81/dA/tIII/s332/a), Dec. 27, 2021, [135 Stat. 1637](/us/stat/135/1637); amended [Pub. L. 118–159, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(28)](/us/pl/118/159/dA/tXVII/s1701/a/28), Dec. 23, 2024, [138 Stat. 2204](/us/stat/138/2204).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2024—Subsecs. (b) to (f). [Pub. L. 118–159](/us/pl/118/159) redesignated subsecs. (d) to (f) as (c) to (e), respectively, and the second subsec. (b), relating to use of certain technologies, as (f).
