---
title: "§ 721. Implementation of policy"
identifier: "USC-T47-S721"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-10-02"
last_updated: "2024-10-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title47-section721"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "47"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 87–624, title II, § 201](/us/pl/87/624/tII/s201), Aug. 31, 1962, [76 Stat. 421](/us/stat/76/421); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(b)(1)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/b/1), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)"
---
# § 721. Implementation of policy

##### § 721. Implementation of policy

(a) the President shall—

(1) to (7) omitted.

(b) omitted.

(c) the Federal Communications Commission, in its administration of the provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended [[47 U.S.C. 151](/us/usc/t47/s151) et seq.], and as supplemented by this chapter, shall—

(1) to (10) omitted;

(11) make rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

*([Pub. L. 87–624, title II, § 201](/us/pl/87/624/tII/s201), Aug. 31, 1962, [76 Stat. 421](/us/stat/76/421); [Pub. L. 103–414, title III, § 304(b)(1)](/us/pl/103/414/tIII/s304/b/1), Oct. 25, 1994, [108 Stat. 4297](/us/stat/108/4297).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, referred to in subsec. (c), is [act June 19, 1934, ch. 652](/us/act/1934-06-19/ch652), [48 Stat. 1064](/us/stat/48/1064), which is classified principally to chapter 5 (§ 151 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 609 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s609) and Tables.

#### Codification

Subsecs. (a)(1), (5), (6), (b), and (c)(1), (3) to (5), (8) to (10) of this section ceased to be effective Mar. 17, 2000, pursuant to [section 765d(1) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s765d/1). Prior to being omitted, subsec. (a)(1), (5) and (6) directed the President to aid in a national program to establish and operate a commercial communications satellite system, to insure arrangements were made for foreign participation in the establishment and use of the system, and to insure availability and utilization of the system for general governmental purposes, subsec. (b) directed the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to give technical advice to the Commission and to cooperate with, assist, and provide services to the corporation, and subsec. (c)(1), (3) to (5), (8) to (10) directed the Federal Communications Commission to insure effective competition in procurement of services, to require establishment of communication to a particular foreign point when advised by the Secretary of State, to insure technical compatibility of the system with satellite terminal stations, to insure system economies are reflected in rates, to authorize the corporation to issue stock, borrow moneys, and assume securities obligations, to insure that substantial additions to the system or stations are made only when necessary, and to require necessary additions to be made with respect to the system or stations.

Subsecs. (a)(2) to (4), (7) and (c)(2), (6), (7) of this section ceased to be effective Apr. 15, 2005, pursuant to [section 765d(4) of this title](/us/usc/t47/s765d/4). Prior to being omitted, subsec. (a)(2) to (4) and (7) directed the President to review the development and operation of the communications satellite system, to coordinate activities of governmental agencies with telecommunication responsibilities, to supervise foreign relationships of the corporation, and to coordinate efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum and subsec. (c)(2), (6), and (7) directed the Federal Communications Commission to ensure nondiscriminatory use of the communications satellite system under just and reasonable charges, to approve technical characteristics of the operational communications satellite system, and to grant appropriate authorizations for the construction and operation of each satellite terminal station.

#### Amendments

1994—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 103–414](/us/pl/103/414) struck out “as expeditiously as possible,” after “establishment and operation,”.

#### **Executive Documents**

#### Executive Order No. 11191

Ex. Ord. No. 11191, Jan. 4, 1965, 30 F.R. 29, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 11556, Sept. 4, 1970, 35 F.R. 14193, which related to the administration of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 [this chapter], was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12046, Mar. 27, 1978, 43 F.R. 13349, set out as a note under [section 305 of this title](/us/usc/t47/s305).
