---
title: "§ 20102. Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization category"
identifier: "USC-T10-S20102"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section20102"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1715](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1715), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 627](/us/stat/137/627).)"
---
# § 20102. Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization category

##### § 20102. Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization category

(a) In General.— Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force may designate a member of the Space Force in a space force active status as an Individual Ready Guardian.

(b) Mobilization Category.—

(1) In general.— Among members of the Space Force designated as Individual Ready Guardians, there is a category of members (referred to as a “mobilization category”) who, as designated by the Secretary of the Air Force, are subject to being ordered to active duty without their consent in accordance with [section 20106(a) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s20106/a).

(2) Limitations on placement in mobilization category.— A member designated as an Individual Ready Guardian may not be placed in the mobilization category referred to in paragraph (1) unless—

(A) the member volunteers to be placed in that mobilization category; and

(B) the member is selected by the Secretary of the Air Force, based upon the needs of the Space Force and the grade and military skills of that member.

(3) Limitation on time in mobilization category.— A member of the Space Force in a space force active status may not remain designated an Individual Ready Guardian in such mobilization category after the end of the 24-month period beginning on the date of the separation of the member from active service.

(4) Designation of grades and military skills or specialties.— The Secretary of the Air Force shall designate the grades and military skills or specialties of members to be eligible for placement in such mobilization category.

(5) Benefits.— A member in such mobilization category shall be eligible for benefits (other than pay and training) on the same basis as are available to members of the Individual Ready Reserve who are in the special mobilization category under [section 10144(b) of this title](/us/usc/t10/s10144/b), as determined by the Secretary of Defense.

*(Added [Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, § 1715](/us/pl/118/31/dA/tXVII/s1715), Dec. 22, 2023, [137 Stat. 627](/us/stat/137/627).)*
