---
title: "§ 7621. Sense of Congress on public-private partnerships"
identifier: "USC-T22-S7621"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section7621"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 108–25, title II, § 201](/us/pl/108/25/tII/s201), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 723](/us/stat/117/723).)"
---
# § 7621. Sense of Congress on public-private partnerships

##### § 7621. Sense of Congress on public-private partnerships

(a) Findings Congress makes the following findings:

(1) Innovative partnerships between governments and organizations in the private sector (including foundations, universities, corporations, faith-based and community-based organizations, and other nongovernmental organizations) have proliferated in recent years, particularly in the area of health.

(2) Public-private sector partnerships multiply local and international capacities to strengthen the delivery of health services in developing countries and to accelerate research for vaccines and other pharmaceutical products that are essential to combat infectious diseases decimating the populations of these countries.

(3) These partnerships maximize the unique capabilities of each sector while combining financial and other resources, scientific knowledge, and expertise toward common goals which neither the public nor the private sector can achieve alone.

(4) Sustaining existing public-private partnerships and building new ones are critical to the success of the international community’s efforts to combat HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases around the globe.

(b) Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that—

(1) the sustainment and promotion of public-private partnerships should be a priority element of the strategy pursued by the United States to combat the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other global health crises; and

(2) the United States should systematically track the evolution of these partnerships and work with others in the public and private sector to profile and build upon those models that are most effective.

*([Pub. L. 108–25, title II, § 201](/us/pl/108/25/tII/s201), May 27, 2003, [117 Stat. 723](/us/stat/117/723).)*
