---
title: "§ 4004. Northern Gulf of Mexico hypoxia"
identifier: "USC-T33-S4004"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title33-section4004"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "33"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–383, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/105/383/tVI/s604), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3449](/us/stat/112/3449); [Pub. L. 113–124, § 7](/us/pl/113/124/s7), June 30, 2014, [128 Stat. 1384](/us/stat/128/1384).)"
---
# § 4004. Northern Gulf of Mexico hypoxia

##### § 4004. Northern Gulf of Mexico hypoxia

(a) Initial progress reports Beginning not later than 12 months after June 30, 2014, and biennially thereafter, the Administrator, through the Mississippi River/Gulf of Mexico Watershed Nutrient Task Force, shall submit a progress report to the appropriate congressional committees and the President that describes the progress made by activities directed by the Mississippi River/Gulf of Mexico Watershed Nutrient Task Force and carried out or funded by the Environmental Protection Agency and other State and Federal partners toward attainment of the goals of the Gulf Hypoxia Action Plan 2008.

(b) Contents Each report required under this section shall—

(1) assess the progress made toward nutrient load reductions, the response of the hypoxic zone and water quality throughout the Mississippi/Atchafalaya River Basin, and the economic and social effects;

(2) evaluate lessons learned; and

(3) recommend appropriate actions to continue to implement or, if necessary, revise the strategy set forth in the Gulf Hypoxia Action Plan 2008.

*([Pub. L. 105–383, title VI, § 604](/us/pl/105/383/tVI/s604), Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3449](/us/stat/112/3449); [Pub. L. 113–124, § 7](/us/pl/113/124/s7), June 30, 2014, [128 Stat. 1384](/us/stat/128/1384).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Codification

Section was formerly set out in a note under [section 1451 of Title 16](/us/usc/t16/s1451), Conservation.

#### Amendments

2014—[Pub. L. 113–124](/us/pl/113/124) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section required the Task Force to submit an integrated assessment of hypoxia in the northern Gulf of Mexico and develop a plan for reducing, mitigating, and controlling such hypoxia.
