---
title: "§ 40725. National Matches and small-arms firing school"
identifier: "USC-T36-S40725"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-04-08"
last_updated: "2024-04-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title36-section40725"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "36"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/112/1338).)"
---
# § 40725. National Matches and small-arms firing school

##### § 40725. National Matches and small-arms firing school

(a) Annual Competition.— An annual competition called the “National Matches” and consisting of rifle and pistol matches for a national trophy, medals, and other prizes shall be held as prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.

(b) Eligible Participants.— The National Matches are open to members of the Armed Forces, National Guard, Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Citizens’ Military Training Camps, Citizens’ Air Training Camps, and rifle clubs, and to civilians.

(c) Small-Arms Firing School.— A small-arms firing school shall be held in connection with the National Matches.

(d) Other Competitions.— Competitions for which trophies and medals are provided by the National Rifle Association of America shall be held in connection with the National Matches.

*([Pub. L. 105–225](/us/pl/105/225), Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1338](/us/stat/112/1338).)*

In subsection (a), the provision for the National Matches to be held as prescribed by “the Secretary of the Army” is retained notwithstanding section 1612(d) of The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996 ([Public Law 104–106](/us/pl/104/106), [110 Stat. 517](/us/stat/110/517)) which transferred the Civilian Marksmanship Program, including the National Matches, from the Secretary of the Army to the corporation. The conforming amendments in section 1624 of the Act ([110 Stat. 522](/us/stat/110/522)) did not repeal the authority of the Secretary of the Army to prescribe National Matches under 10:4312 or to prescribe subsistence and travel allowances for competitors under 10:4313.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *Revised**Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 40725 | 10:4312. |  |
