---
title: "§ 4559. Public participation in rulemaking"
identifier: "USC-T50-S4559"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-16"
last_updated: "2024-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section4559"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "50"
source_credit: "([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 709, [64 Stat. 819](/us/stat/64/819); [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 136(a)](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s136/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/106/4216).)"
---
# § 4559. Public participation in rulemaking

##### § 4559. Public participation in rulemaking

(a) Exemption from Administrative Procedure Act Any regulation issued under this chapter shall not be subject to sections 551 through 559 of title 5.

(b) Opportunity for notice and comment

(1) In general Except as provided in subsection (c), any regulation issued under this chapter shall be published in the Federal Register and opportunity for public comment shall be provided for not less than 30 days, consistent with the requirements of [section 553(b) of title 5](/us/usc/t5/s553/b).

(2) Waiver for temporary provisions The requirements of paragraph (1) may be waived, if—

(A) the officer authorized to issue the regulation finds that urgent and compelling circumstances make compliance with such requirements impracticable;

(B) the regulation is issued on a temporary basis; and

(C) the publication of such temporary regulation is accompanied by the finding made under subparagraph (A) (and a brief statement of the reasons for such finding) and an opportunity for public comment is provided for not less than 30 days before any regulation becomes final.

(3) Consideration of public comments All comments received during the public comment period specified pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall be considered and the publication of the final regulation shall contain written responses to such comments.

(c) Public comment on procurement regulations Any procurement policy, regulation, procedure, or form (including any amendment or modification of any such policy, regulation, procedure, or form) issued under this chapter shall be subject to [section 1707 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1707).

*([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), title VII, § 709, [64 Stat. 819](/us/stat/64/819); [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 136(a)](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s136/a), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4216](/us/stat/106/4216).)*

#### Termination of Section

For termination of section, see [section 4564(a) of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4564/a).

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932](/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932), [64 Stat. 798](/us/stat/64/798), known as the Defense Production Act of 1950, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 4501 of this title](/us/usc/t50/s4501) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to section 2159 of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

In subsec. (c), “[section 1707 of title 41](/us/usc/t41/s1707)” substituted for “section 22 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act” on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c)](/us/pl/111/350/s6/c), Jan. 4, 2011, [124 Stat. 3854](/us/stat/124/3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

#### Amendments

1992—[Pub. L. 102–558](/us/pl/102/558) amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The functions exercised under this chapter shall be excluded from the operation of the Administrative Procedure Act ([60 Stat. 237](/us/stat/60/237)) except as to the requirements of section 3 thereof. Any rule, regulation, or order, or amendment thereto, issued under authority of this chapter shall be accompanied by a statement that in the formulation thereof there has been consultation with industry representatives, including trade association representatives, and that consideration has been given to their recommendations, or that special circumstances have rendered such consultation impracticable or contrary to the interest of the national defense, but no such rule, regulation, or order shall be invalid by reason of any subsequent finding by judicial or other authority that such a statement is inaccurate.”

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment

[Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 136(b)](/us/pl/102/558/tI/s136/b), Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4217](/us/stat/106/4217), provided that: “Section 709 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2159) [now [50 U.S.C. 4559](/us/usc/t50/s4559)], as amended by subsection (a) of this section, shall not apply to any regulation issued in proposed or final form on or before the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 1992].”
