---
title: "§ 6335. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes"
identifier: "USC-T10-S6335"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title10-section6335"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "10"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/139/1449).)"
---
# § 6335. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes

##### § 6335. Limitations on use of funds for laboratory directed research and development purposes

(a) Limitation on Use of Weapons Activities Funds.— No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for weapons activities may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the national security mission of the Department of Energy.

(b) Limitation on Use of Certain Other Funds.— No funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Energy in any fiscal year after fiscal year 1997 for defense environmental cleanup may be obligated or expended for activities under the Department of Energy Laboratory Directed Research and Development Program, or under any Department of Energy technology transfer program or cooperative research and development agreement, unless such activities support the defense environmental cleanup mission of the Department of Energy.

(c) Limitation on Use of Funds for Overhead.— A national security laboratory may not use funds made available under section 6331(c) to cover the costs of general and administrative overhead for the laboratory.

*(Added [Pub. L. 119–60, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)](/us/pl/119/60/dC/tXXXI/s3111/a), Dec. 18, 2025, [139 Stat. 1449](/us/stat/139/1449).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Prior Provisions

A prior section 6335 was renumbered [section 8335 of this title](/us/usc/t10/s8335).

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in [section 2792 of Title 50](/us/usc/t50/s2792), War and National Defense, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 119–60, § 3111(b)(1)](/us/pl/119/60/s3111/b/1).
