---
title: "§ 17035. University based research and development grant program"
identifier: "USC-T42-S17035"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section17035"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 234](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s234), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/121/1538).)"
---
# § 17035. University based research and development grant program

##### § 17035. University based research and development grant program

(a) Establishment The Secretary shall establish a competitive grant program, in a geographically diverse manner, for projects submitted for consideration by institutions of higher education to conduct research and development of renewable energy technologies. Each grant made shall not exceed $2,000,000.

(b) Eligibility Priority shall be given to institutions of higher education with—

(1) established programs of research in renewable energy;

(2) locations that are low income or outside of an urbanized area;

(3) a joint venture with an Indian tribe; and

(4) proximity to trees dying of disease or insect infestation as a source of woody biomass.

(c) Authorization of appropriations There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $25,000,000 for carrying out this section.

(d) Definitions In this section:

(1) Indian tribe The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning as defined in [section 15823(c) of this title](/us/usc/t42/s15823/c).

(2) Renewable energy The term “renewable energy” has the meaning as defined in [section 16181 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s16181).

(3) Urbanized area The term “urbanized area” has the meaning as defined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.

*([Pub. L. 110–140, title II, § 234](/us/pl/110/140/tII/s234), Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1538](/us/stat/121/1538).)*

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Effective Date

Section effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see [section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140](/us/pl/110/140/s1601), set out as a note under [section 1824 of Title 2](/us/usc/t2/s1824), The Congress.
