---
title: "§ 331. Certifying checks on State banks admitted as members"
identifier: "USC-T12-S331"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-12-03"
last_updated: "2025-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title12-section331"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "12"
source_credit: "([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 9](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s9) (par.), as added [June 21, 1917, ch. 32, § 3](/us/act/1917-06-21/ch32/s3), [40 Stat. 234](/us/stat/40/234); amended [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title II, § 203(a), [49 Stat. 704](/us/stat/49/704).)"
---
# § 331. Certifying checks on State banks admitted as members

##### § 331. Certifying checks on State banks admitted as members

It shall be unlawful for any officer, clerk, or agent of any bank admitted to membership under authority of this subchapter, to certify any check drawn upon such bank unless the person or company drawing the check has on deposit therewith at the time such check is certified an amount of money equal to the amount specified in such check. Any check so certified by duly authorized officers shall be a good and valid obligation against such bank, but the act of any such officer, clerk, or agent in violation of this subchapter, may subject such bank to a forfeiture of its membership in the Federal reserve system upon hearing by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

*([Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, § 9](/us/act/1913-12-23/ch6/s9) (par.), as added [June 21, 1917, ch. 32, § 3](/us/act/1917-06-21/ch32/s3), [40 Stat. 234](/us/stat/40/234); amended [Aug. 23, 1935, ch. 614](/us/act/1935-08-23/ch614), title II, § 203(a), [49 Stat. 704](/us/stat/49/704).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this section”, meaning section 9 of act Dec. 23, 1913, which is classified generally to this subchapter (§ 321 et seq.).

#### Codification

Section is comprised of the fourteenth par. of section 9 of act Dec. 23, 1913, as amended. The fourteenth par. constituted the eleventh par. of section 9 in 1917 ([40 Stat. 232](/us/stat/40/232)), became the twelfth par. in 1927 ([44 Stat. 1229](/us/stat/44/1229)), became the thirteenth par. in 1935 ([49 Stat. 704](/us/stat/49/704)), and became the fourteenth par. in 1950 ([64 Stat. 458](/us/stat/64/458)). For further details, see Codification notes set out under sections 321 and 329a of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Change of Name

Section 203(a) of act Aug. 23, 1935, changed name of Federal Reserve Board to Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
