---
title: "§ 1741e. Definitions"
identifier: "USC-T22-S1741e"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title22-section1741e"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "22"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title III, § 307](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tIII/s307), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3098](/us/stat/134/3098).)"
---
# § 1741e. Definitions

##### § 1741e. Definitions

(1) Appropriate congressional committees The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

(2) United States national The term “United States national” means—

(A) a United States national as defined in section 1101(a)(22) or [section 1408 of title 8](/us/usc/t8/s1408); and

(B) a lawful permanent resident alien with significant ties to the United States.

*([Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title III, § 307](/us/pl/116/260/dFF/tIII/s307), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3098](/us/stat/134/3098).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 301–308) of title III of div. FF of [Pub. L. 116–260](/us/pl/116/260), Dec. 27, 2020, [134 Stat. 3091](/us/stat/134/3091), known as the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act, which enacted this subchapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
