---
title: "§ 5054. Distribution of benefits between rural and urban areas"
identifier: "USC-T42-S5054"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-section5054"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "42"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 93–113, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/93/113/tIV/s414), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 411](/us/stat/87/411).)"
---
# § 5054. Distribution of benefits between rural and urban areas

##### § 5054. Distribution of benefits between rural and urban areas

The Director shall adopt appropriate administrative measures to assure that the benefits of and services under this chapter will be distributed equitably between residents of rural and urban areas.

*([Pub. L. 93–113, title IV, § 414](/us/pl/93/113/tIV/s414), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 411](/us/stat/87/411).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning [Pub. L. 93–113](/us/pl/93/113), Oct. 1, 1973, [87 Stat. 394](/us/stat/87/394), known as the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 4950 of this title](/us/usc/t42/s4950) and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**

#### Rural Program Report

[Pub. L. 96–143, § 16](/us/pl/96/143/s16), Dec. 13, 1979, [93 Stat. 1082](/us/stat/93/1082), provided that not later than Feb. 1, 1980, the Director of the ACTION Agency was to submit to appropriate committees of Congress a report specifying special needs and circumstances to be addressed in designing programs under Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 [this chapter] for implementation in rural areas, such report to include a detailed statement of manner in which Director intended to address such needs and circumstances, together with a timetable for designing and implementing such programs.
