---
title: "§ 12301. Grants for capital improvements to prevent crime in public transportation"
identifier: "USC-T34-S12301"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-08-02"
last_updated: "2024-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title34-section12301"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "34"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40131](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40131), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/108/1916).)"
---
# § 12301. Grants for capital improvements to prevent crime in public transportation

##### § 12301. Grants for capital improvements to prevent crime in public transportation

(a) General purpose There is authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $10,000,000, for the Secretary of Transportation (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) to make capital grants for the prevention of crime and to increase security in existing and future public transportation systems. None of the provisions of this Act may be construed to prohibit the financing of projects under this section where law enforcement responsibilities are vested in a local public body other than the grant applicant.

(b) Grants for lighting, camera surveillance, and security phones

(1) From the sums authorized for expenditure under this section for crime prevention, the Secretary is authorized to make grants and loans to States and local public bodies or agencies for the purpose of increasing the safety of public transportation by—

(A) increasing lighting within or adjacent to public transportation systems, including bus stops, subway stations, parking lots, or garages;

(B) increasing camera surveillance of areas within and adjacent to public transportation systems, including bus stops, subway stations, parking lots, or garages;

(C) providing emergency phone lines to contact law enforcement or security personnel in areas within or adjacent to public transportation systems, including bus stops, subway stations, parking lots, or garages; or

(D) any other project intended to increase the security and safety of existing or planned public transportation systems.

(2) From the sums authorized under this section, at least 75 percent shall be expended on projects of the type described in subsection (b)(1)(A) and (B).

(c) Reporting All grants under this section are contingent upon the filing of a report with the Secretary and the Department of Justice, Office of Victims of Crime, showing crime rates in or adjacent to public transportation before, and for a 1-year period after, the capital improvement. Statistics shall be compiled on the basis of the type of crime, sex, race, ethnicity, language, and relationship of victim to the offender.

(d) Increased Federal share Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal share under this section for each capital improvement project that enhances the safety and security of public transportation systems and that is not required by law (including any other provision of this Act) shall be 90 percent of the net project cost of the project.

(e) Special grants for projects to study increasing security for women From the sums authorized under this section, the Secretary shall provide grants and loans for the purpose of studying ways to reduce violent crimes against women in public transit through better design or operation of public transit systems.

(f) General requirements All grants or loans provided under this section shall be subject to the same terms, conditions, requirements, and provisions applicable to grants and loans as specified in [section 5321 of title 49](/us/usc/t49/s5321).

*([Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40131](/us/pl/103/322/tIV/s40131), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1916](/us/stat/108/1916).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

This Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), is [Pub. L. 103–322](/us/pl/103/322), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1796](/us/stat/108/1796), known as the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under [section 10101 of this title](/us/usc/t34/s10101) and Tables.

#### Codification

Section was formerly classified to [section 13931 of Title 42](/us/usc/t42/s13931), The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
