---
title: "§ 8703. Tankermen on tank vessels"
identifier: "USC-T46-S8703"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2024-07-31"
last_updated: "2024-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title46-section8703"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@118-158"
title_number: "46"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 555](/us/stat/97/555); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 18](/us/pl/98/557/s18), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2869](/us/stat/98/2869); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3546(h)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3546/h), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2326](/us/stat/132/2326).)"
---
# § 8703. Tankermen on tank vessels

##### § 8703. Tankermen on tank vessels

(a) A vessel of the United States to which chapter 37 of this title applies, that has on board oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue, shall have a specified number of the crew certified as tankermen as required by the Secretary. This requirement shall be noted on the certificate of inspection issued to the vessel.

(b) A vessel to which [section 3702(b) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s3702/b) applies shall have on board as a crewmember in charge of the transfer operation an individual certified as a tankerman (qualified for the grade of fuel transferred), unless a master, mate, pilot, engineer, or operator licensed under [section 7101 of this title](/us/usc/t46/s7101) is present in charge of the transfer. If the vessel does not have that individual on board, chapter 37 of this title applies to the vessel.

*([Pub. L. 98–89](/us/pl/98/89), Aug. 26, 1983, [97 Stat. 555](/us/stat/97/555); [Pub. L. 98–557, § 18](/us/pl/98/557/s18), Oct. 30, 1984, [98 Stat. 2869](/us/stat/98/2869); [Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, § 3546(h)](/us/pl/115/232/dC/tXXXV/s3546/h), Aug. 13, 2018, [132 Stat. 2326](/us/stat/132/2326).)*

Section 8703 sets requirements for tankermen on board vessels carrying oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue.

Subsection (a) requires a specified number of the crew certified as tankermen on board these vessels and a notation be made to that effect on the vessel’s certificate of inspection. A tankerman is an individual who is experienced and trained in the procedures for transferring oil or hazardous material to or from a vessel and is responsible for carrying out these duties and responsibilities.

Subsection (b) authorizes the Secretary to regulate tankermen and restrict the types of oil or hazardous materials on the basis of safety to the vessel and the marine environment.

Subsection (c) requires a tankerman or licensed master, pilot, engineer, or operator to be present and in charge of a transfer of oil or hazardous material on certain vessels in the service of oil exploitation. If this individual is not on board, then the tank vessel requirements of chapter 37 apply to the vessel.

| Historical and Revision Notes |  |
| --- | --- |
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 8703(a) | 46:391a(10)(A) |
| 8703(b) | 46:391a(10)(C) |
| 8703(c) | 46:391a(4)(B) |

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2018—Subsecs. (b), (c). [Pub. L. 115–232](/us/pl/115/232) redesignated subsec. (c) as (b).

1984—Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 98–557](/us/pl/98/557) struck out subsec. (b) which contained duplicate tankerman manning requirements. See [section 7317(a) of this title](/us/usc/t46/s7317/a).
