---
title: "§ 1831. Economic espionage"
identifier: "USC-T18-S1831"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2026-03-26"
last_updated: "2026-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title18-section1831"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "yes"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "18"
source_credit: "(Added [Pub. L. 104–294, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/294/tI/s101/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3488](/us/stat/110/3488); amended [Pub. L. 112–269, § 2](/us/pl/112/269/s2), Jan. 14, 2013, [126 Stat. 2442](/us/stat/126/2442).)"
---
# § 1831. Economic espionage

##### § 1831. Economic espionage

(a) In General.— Whoever, intending or knowing that the offense will benefit any foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent, knowingly—

shall, except as provided in subsection (b), be fined not more than $5,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both.

(1) steals, or without authorization appropriates, takes, carries away, or conceals, or by fraud, artifice, or deception obtains a trade secret;

(2) without authorization copies, duplicates, sketches, draws, photographs, downloads, uploads, alters, destroys, photocopies, replicates, transmits, delivers, sends, mails, communicates, or conveys a trade secret;

(3) receives, buys, or possesses a trade secret, knowing the same to have been stolen or appropriated, obtained, or converted without authorization;

(4) attempts to commit any offense described in any of paragraphs (1) through (3); or

(5) conspires with one or more other persons to commit any offense described in any of paragraphs (1) through (3), and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,

(b) Organizations.— Any organization that commits any offense described in subsection (a) shall be fined not more than the greater of $10,000,000 or 3 times the value of the stolen trade secret to the organization, including expenses for research and design and other costs of reproducing the trade secret that the organization has thereby avoided.

*(Added [Pub. L. 104–294, title I, § 101(a)](/us/pl/104/294/tI/s101/a), Oct. 11, 1996, [110 Stat. 3488](/us/stat/110/3488); amended [Pub. L. 112–269, § 2](/us/pl/112/269/s2), Jan. 14, 2013, [126 Stat. 2442](/us/stat/126/2442).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### Amendments

2013—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 112–269, § 2(a)](/us/pl/112/269/s2/a), substituted “not more than $5,000,000” for “not more than $500,000” in concluding provisions.

Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 112–269, § 2(b)](/us/pl/112/269/s2/b), substituted “not more than the greater of $10,000,000 or 3 times the value of the stolen trade secret to the organization, including expenses for research and design and other costs of reproducing the trade secret that the organization has thereby avoided” for “not more than $10,000,000”.
