---
title: "§ 1823. Waiver of limitation on decrease in duty and negotiation and staging requirements for dicyandiamide and limestone"
identifier: "USC-T19-S1823"
country: "us"
rank: "statute"
publication_date: "2025-08-11"
last_updated: "2025-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title19-section1823"
department: "United States Congress"
positive_law: "no"
release_point: "Online@119-73"
title_number: "19"
source_credit: "([Pub. L. 90–14](/us/pl/90/14), May 5, 1967, [81 Stat. 14](/us/stat/81/14).)"
---
# § 1823. Waiver of limitation on decrease in duty and negotiation and staging requirements for dicyandiamide and limestone

##### § 1823. Waiver of limitation on decrease in duty and negotiation and staging requirements for dicyandiamide and limestone

For purposes of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 [[19 U.S.C. 1801](/us/usc/t19/s1801) et seq.], section 201(b)(1) [[19 U.S.C. 1821(b)(1)](/us/usc/t19/s1821/b/1)] (relating to limit on decrease in duty), sections 221, 223, and 224 [[19 U.S.C. 1841](/us/usc/t19/s1841), 1843, 1844] (relating to certain requirements concerning negotiations), and section 253 [[19 U.S.C. 1883](/us/usc/t19/s1883)] (relating to staging requirements) of such Act shall not apply with respect to dicyandiamide provided for in item 425.40 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States, and shall not apply with respect to limestone, when imported to be used in the manufacture of cement, provided for in item 513.34 of such Schedules.

*([Pub. L. 90–14](/us/pl/90/14), May 5, 1967, [81 Stat. 14](/us/stat/81/14).)*

#### **Editorial Notes**

#### References in Text

The Trade Expansion Act of 1962, referred to in text, is [Pub. L. 87–794](/us/pl/87/794), Oct. 11, 1962, [76 Stat. 872](/us/stat/76/872), which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 1801 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1801) and Tables.

Sections 221, 223, 224 and 253 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, referred to in text, were repealed by [Pub. L. 93–618, title VI, § 602(d)](/us/pl/93/618/tVI/s602/d), Jan. 3, 1975, [88 Stat. 2072](/us/stat/88/2072).

The Tariff Schedules of the United States, referred to in text, to be treated as a reference to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule pursuant to [section 3012 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s3012). The Harmonized Tariff Schedule is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under [section 1202 of this title](/us/usc/t19/s1202).

#### Codification

Section was not enacted as part of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 which is classified principally to this chapter.
